PAGE 1
N
ature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975
(OG 3469) 
came into force on date of publication: 20 June 1975 
S
ection 34 of Act 27 of 1986 extends the Ordinance to all of South West Africa: “The Ordinance and 
all amendments thereof as well as all regulations made thereunder, shall, with effect from the date of 
commencement of this Act, apply also in those territories in which the laws repealed by section 33 [of Act 
27 of 1986] were in force immediately before the date of commencement of this Act.” These areas were 
Eastern Caprivi, Owambo, Kavango and all other areas reserved  
for “the sole use and occupation of natives”. 
S
ection 33 of Act 27 of 1986 is reproduced in the annotation to Schedule 1 of this Act.  
The laws repealed by that section indicate the areas where the Nature Conservation Ordinance 
was not in force prior to Act 27 of 1986. 
T
he areas covered by some of the laws repealed by that section 
are obvious from the names of the laws. 
RS
A Proc. R.188 of 1976 (RSA GG 5288), which is one of the laws repealed by section 33 of Act 27 
of 1986, was issued in terms of section 14(1) of the Development of Self-government for Native 
Nations in South-West Africa Act 54 of 1968). It repealed Ord. 4 of 1975 in “the areas consisting of 
land or an area which has been or may be reserved and set apart as is contemplated in section 4 of the 
South-West Africa Native Affairs Administration Act, 1954 (Act 56 of 1954), excluding the areas referred to 
in section 2(1)(d), (e) and (f) of the said Development of Self-government for Native Nations in South-West 
Africa Act, 1968”. Section 4 of the South-West Africa Native Affairs Administration Act 56 of 1954 
(SA GG 5302) referred to certain land along the Okavango River described in the Schedule to that 
Act and “set apart for the sole use and occupation of natives”, as well as “any other land or area in the 
territory which has at any time prior to the commencement of this Act been so reserved or set apart or 
which may at any time after such commencement be so reserved or set apart, in terms of any law”. The 
referenced provisions of the Development of Self-government for Native Nations in South-West 
Africa Act 54 of 1968 (RSA GG 2100) refer to “Okavangoland”, “Eastern Caprivi” and Owamboland” 
– all of which were covered by other laws repealed by section 33 of Act 27 of 1986.
as am
ended by
G
overnment Notice 117 of 1976 (OG 3535) 
under the authority of section 25(1)(c); 
came into force on date of publication: 1 May 1976 
Nature Conservation Amendment Ordinance 4 of 1977 (OG 3603)
came into force on date of publication: 28 March 1977 
Government Notice 115 of 1978 (OG 3741)
under the authority of section 25(1)(c); 
came into force on date of publication: 1 May 1978 
Nature Conservation Amendment Ordinance 16 of 1980 (OG 4166) 
came into force on date of publication: 31 May 1980 
Government Notice AG 77 of 1985 (OG 5045)
under the authority of section 25(1)(c); 
came into force on date of publication: 27 May 1985


PAGE 2
Republic of Namibia 2 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
Nature Conservation Amendment Act 27 of 1986 (OG 5294) 
came into force on date of publication: 27 November 1986  
Government Notice 75 of 1987 (OG 5364) 
under the authority of section 25(1)(c) (erroneously written as 25(i)(c)); 
came into force on date of publication: 14 May 1987 
Nature Conservation Amendment Act 6 of 1988 (OG 5538) 
came into force on date of publication: 30 April 1988  
Government Notice 90 of 1988 (OG 5547) 
under the authority of section 25(1)(c) (erroneously written as 25(i)(c)); 
came into force on date of publication: 23 May 1988 
Second Nature Conservation Amendment Act 17 of 1988 (OG 5591) 
came into force on date of publication: 16 August 1988  
Nature Conservation General Amendment Act 31 of 1990 (GG 133)  
came into force on date of publication: 31 December 1990  
Government Notice 131 of 1996 (GG 1320) 
under the authority of section 25(1)(c) and (3); 
came into force on date of publication: 1 June 1996 
Nature Conservation Amendment Act 5 of 1996 (GG 1333) 
brought into force on 29 April 1997 by GN 78/1997 (GG 1546)  
Inland Fisheries Resources Act 1 of 2003 (GG 2962) 
brought into force on 6 June 2003 by GN 117/2003 (GG 2992)  
Government Notice 18 of 2016 (GG 5936) 
under the authority of section 25(2) and (3); 
came into force on date of publication: 27 January 2016  
Note that there are two versions of GG 5936. The corrected version is not marked  
as having been corrected in any way. However, the changes between  
the two versions do not affect the amendments to this Ordinance. 
Nature Conservation Amendment Act 3 of 2017 (GG 6344) 
came into force on date of publication: 28 June 2017  
 
A portion of section 83(1) is declared unconstitutional and “pro non scripto”  
(“as though it had not been written") in N/a’an Ku Sê Foundation v Minister of Environment, 
Forestry and Tourism & Others 2023 (1) NR 213 (HC). 
 
 
ORDINANCE 
 
To consolidate and amend the laws relating to the conservation of nature; the establishment 
of game parks and nature reserves; the control of problem animals; and to provide for 
matters incidental thereto. 
 
(Assented to 19 June 1975) 
(English text signed by the Administrator) 
(Date of commencement 20 June 1975) 
 
 
BE IT ORDAINED by the Legislative Assembly for the Territory of South West Africa, with the 
consent of the State President, in so far as such consent is necessary, previously obtained and 
communicated to the Assembly by message from the Administrator, as follows:- 
 
[The statement above normally appears below the ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS,  
but it appears above the ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS in the  
Official Gazette publishing this Act.]  
 
 

PAGE 3
Republic of Namibia 3 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS 
 
Section 
 
PRELIMINARY 
 
1. Definitions 
2. Directorate of Nature Conservation and Recreation Resorts  
[heading of section 2 substituted by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
CHAPTER I 
 
NATURE CONSERVATION BOARD 
 
3. Continued existence of Nature Conservation Board 
4. Constitution of board 
5. Qualifications and disqualifications of members 
6. Period of office 
7. Vacation of office 
8. Termination of membership 
9. Filling of vacancies 
10. Meetings of the board 
11. Functions, powers and duties of the board 
12. Remuneration, allowances and fees 
 
CHAPTER II 
 
Game Parks, Nature Reserves, Conservancies and Wildlife Councils 
 
[heading of Chapter II substituted by Act 5 of 1996, with capitalisation as reproduced above] 
 
13.  Etosha National Park 
14.  Establishment and objects of game parks and nature reserves 
15.  Amendment of boundaries of game parks and nature reserves 
16. Withdrawal of declaration as a game park or nature reserve 
17. Powers of Minister in relation to game parks, nature reserves and other protected areas 
[heading of section 17 substituted by Act 3 of 2017] 
18. Restriction of right to enter game parks and nature reserves and prohibition of certain acts 
therein 
19. Purposes for which permission to enter game parks and nature reserves may be granted 
20. Prohibition of hunting in game parks and nature reserves 
21. Killing of animals trespassing in game parks or nature reserves 
22. Establishment of private game parks and private nature reserves 
23. Prohibition of hunting in private game parks 
24. Prohibition of picking of indigenous plants in private nature reserves 
24A. Conservancies  
24B. Wildlife councils  
[sections 24A-24B inserted by Act 5 of 1996] 
 
CHAPTER III 
 
WILD ANIMALS 
 
25.  Powers of Minister in relation to hunting seasons and classification of game 
26. Hunting of specially protected game 
27. Hunting of protected game 

PAGE 4
Republic of Namibia 4 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
28. Hunting on State land  
[heading of section 28 substituted by Act 27 of 1986] 
29. Right of ownership to huntable game, huntable game birds and exotic game 
30. Hunting of huntable game under owner’s authority 
31. Hunting of huntable game by owner or lessee of land 
32. Hunting of huntable game birds under owner’s authority 
33. Hunting of huntable game birds by owner or lessee of land 
34. Hunting of exotic game and other wild animals 
35. Lease of hunting rights 
36. Hunting for the sake of trophies and possession and export of trophies 
37. Hunting of game to protect grazing, cultivated lands and gardens 
38. Hunting at night 
39. Powers of land owners in regard to persons found hunting and dogs 
40. Catching, capturing and killing of game and wild animals 
40A. Driving or luring of game from another person’s land or removal or damaging of a fence 
to allow game to pass is an offence 
[section 40A inserted by Act 27 of 1986] 
41. Capturing, transport and keeping of game for commercial purposes 
42. Restrictions in regard to fire-arms and capturing apparatus 
43. Use of vehicles and aircraft when hunting and capturing game 
44. Eggs of game birds 
45. Game for scientific purposes 
46. Donation of game and game meat 
47. Sale of game, game meat and the skins of game 
48. Transport of game and game meat 
49. Import and export of game and wild animals and their skins 
50. Prohibition of the removal of game found dead  
50A. Possession of skins of specially protected and protected game  
[section 50A inserted by Ord. 4 of 1977] 
51. Inability to give satisfactory account of possession 
 
CHAPTER IV 
 
PROBLEM ANIMALS 
 
52. Application of Chapter 
53. Declaration as problem animal 
54.  Hunting of problem animals 
55.  Compulsory control of black-backed jackal 
56.  Provision of aids 
57. Training of hunters 
58. Trade in coyote getters 
59.  Prohibition of the supply of coyote getters to incompetent persons 
60.  Prohibition of the obtaining of coyote getters by incompetent persons 
61.  Use of poison and coyote getters 
62.  Research in regard to problem animals 
63. Obstruction of persons in the performance of their duties 
64. Limitations in relation to damages 
 
CHAPTER V 
 
FISH IN INLAND WATERS 
 
65.  
[section 65 deleted by Act 1 of 2003] 
66.  

PAGE 5
Republic of Namibia 5 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
[section 66 deleted by Act 1 of 2003] 
67.  
[section 67 deleted by Act 1 of 2003] 
68.  
[heading of section 68 substituted by Act 27 of 1986;  
section 68 deleted by Act 1 of 2003] 
69.  
[section 69 deleted by Act 1 of 2003] 
70.  
[section 70 deleted by Act 1 of 2003] 
71.   
[section 71 deleted by Act 1 of 2003] 
 
CHAPTER VI 
 
INDIGENOUS PLANTS 
 
72. Powers of Minister in regard to indigenous plants 
73. Picking and transport of protected plants 
74. Sale, donation, export and removal of protected plants 
75. Nursery licences 
[heading of section 75 substituted by Ord. 4 of 1977] 
76. Receipt of protected plants 
77. Picking and transport of indigenous plants 
 
CHAPTER VII 
 
GENERAL 
 
78. General powers of Minister 
79. Appointment of nature conservators and honorary nature conservators 
80. Certificate of appointment 
81. Powers, functions and duties of nature conservators and honorary nature conservators 
81A. Disposal of article seized in terms of this Ordinance  
 [section 81A inserted by Ord. 4 of 1977] 
82. Exemptions 
83. Conditions in relation to permits, licences, registrations, approvals, permissions and 
exemptions 
84. Regulations 
85. Presumptions 
86. General offence 
87. General Penalty 
[capitalisation of heading of section 87 changed by Act 3 of 2017] 
88. Continuous offences 
89. Forfeiture and other orders 
89A. Jurisdiction of magistrates’ courts in respect of punishments  
[section 89A inserted by Ord. 4 of 1977] 
90. Repeal of laws 
91.  Short title 
 
SCHEDULES 
 
1.  Laws repealed 
2. Definition of the boundaries of the Etosha National Park 
3. Specially protected game 
4. Protected game 
5.  Huntable game 

PAGE 6
Republic of Namibia 6 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
6.  Huntable game birds 
7.  Application for a game dealer’s licence 
8.  Game dealer’s licence 
9. Protected plants 
 
[Act 5 of 1996 directs that the following substitutions be made throughout the Act:  
(a) “Namibia” for “the Territory’’;  
(b)  “Minister” for “Executive Committee”, “Cabinet” or “Administrator-General” 
(although the Act contained no instances of the term “Administrator-General” 
by this time); and 
(c)  “State” for “Government of the Territory or a representative authority” and  
“Government of the Territory”, except in section 28(1)(b) – where the 
substitution was made by an amendment made by Act 5 of 1996.] 
 
PRELIMINARY 
 
Definitions 
 
1. In this Ordinance, unless the context otherwise indicates - 
 
“adequate fence”, in relation to a farm, means - 
 
(a)  a boundary fence which along the whole length thereof is at least 1,22 metres high and has 
been erected - 
 
(i)  with straining posts planted in at most 500 metres from each other; 
 
(ii)  with middle posts of iron or hardwood which - 
 
(aa) in the case of iron posts, have a mass of at least four kilograms each; or 
 
(bb)  in the case of hardwood posts, are at least 100 millimetres in diameter at the 
thin end; and 
 
(cc)  are planted in to a depth of at least 600 millimetres and at most 20 metres from 
the nearest straining post and from each other; 
 
(iii)  with iron droppers, or droppers of hardwood which are at least 35 millimetres  in 
diameter a
t the thin end; 
 
(iv)  with at least five galvanised steel wire strands or, three galvanised steel wire strands 
and jackal-proof fencing; and 
 
(v)  with gates which are at least of the same height as the boundary fence and are of 
such a nature that they do not in any manner impair the efficacy of the boundary 
fence, 
 
but does not include such a boundary fence in which a game -trap has been constructed or 
of which any portion has been removed, damaged, cut, flattened or raised or is in such a 
bad state of repair that the efficacy of such boundary fence is impaired; 
 
(b)  in the case of a dividing line between two farms along which, in the opinion of the Minister, 
it is impracticable or inexpedient to erect a fence, any indication of the boundary line 
between the said farms in respect of which the Director has, after agreement by the owners 
of the farms concerned, with the approval of th e Minister, certified that it indicates the 
boundary line in all respects; 

PAGE 7
Republic of Namibia 7 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
 
[definition of “adequate fence” substituted by Ord. 4 of 1977 and by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
[definition of “Administration” deleted by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
“angle” in relation to fish means the use of a line and fish-hook, whether a rod is used or not; and 
includes the use of a landing or keepnet to land or keep fish caught by means of a line and fish-
hook; 
 
“artificial lure or spoon”, for the purposes of Chapter V, means any device which by its simulation 
of life or by its colour or appearance is designed to delude or entice a fish into seizing such device; 
 
“big game”, in relation to huntable game, means  the following species of such game, namely,  
buffalo, eland, oryx and kudu; 
 
[definition of “big game” inserted by Act 6 of 1988] 
 
“board” means the Nature Conservation Board referred to in section 3; 
 
“catch” and “capture” include the use of any means or method to catch, capture, injure or 
immobilise fish, game or any other wild animal; 
 
“certificate of competency” means a certificate of competency issued in terms of section 57(3); 
 
“children” means the natural children, step -children and lawfully adopted children of a person, 
and includes the husband or wife of any such child; 
 
“communal land” means communal land as defined in section 1 of the Communal Land Reform 
Act, 2002 (Act No. 5 of 2002); 
 
[definition of “communal land” inserted by Act 27 of 1986  
and substituted by Act 5 of 1996 and by Act 3 of 2017] 
 
“concession” means the rights, whether full or restricted or shared or exclusive, to conduct 
tourism activities or to commercially use State -owned wildlife resources on business principles 
in protected areas and any other State land for a specified period;  
 
[definition of “concession” inserted by Act 3 of 2017] 
 
“conservancy” means any area declared a conservancy in terms of section 24A(2)(ii); 
 
[definition of “conservancy” inserted by Act 5 of 1996] 
 
“conservancy committee” means a conservancy committee recognized as such by the Minister 
under section 24A(2)(i); 
 
[definition of “conservancy committee” inserted by Act 5 of 1996] 
 
“consumptive use” means the utilisation of individual game by its permanent removal, or removal 
of its parts, from or within an area; 
 
[definition of “consumptive use” inserted by Act 5 of 1996] 
 
“coyote getter” means the device known as “coyote getter” or a similar device; 
 
“Director” means the Director of Nature Conservation and Recreation Resorts r eferred to  in 
section 2; 

PAGE 8
Republic of Namibia 8 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
 
[definition of “Director” amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
  
“Directorate” means the Directorate of Nature Conservation and Recreation Resorts referred to 
in section 2; 
 
[definition of “Directorate” inserted by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
[definition of “Executive Committee” deleted by Act 5 of 1996] 
 
“exotic game” means any vertebrate (including any bird, fish or reptile) whether kept or bred in 
captivity or elsewhere, belonging to a non-domestic species the habit of whic h is not in the  
Republic of Namibia; 
 
[The definition of “exotic game” is amended by Act 3 of 2017. The amendment instructions are 
omitted from the amending Act, but the amendment appears to change the word “habitat”  
to “habit” in addition to deleting a previous reference to South Africa.] 
 
“fish” includes aquatic fauna in general (excluding mammals and birds) whether indigenous or 
exotic, as well as the eggs, brood or spawn thereof; 
 
“fisheries” includes all waters and all fish therein; 
 
“fishing tackle” means any fishing tackle, apparatus or device, or any part thereof, commonly 
used for the catching of fish; 
 
“game” means specially protected game, protected game, huntable game, huntable game birds 
and exotic game; 
 
“game meat” means the meat of any game, whether fresh, salted, smoked or dried, or in the 
process of being smoked or dried; includes the bones in, or attached to, such meat; and also 
comprises the whole carcass of any game which is dead; 
 
“game park” means the Etosha National Park referred to in section 13(1), and any area declared 
a game park in terms of section 14(1); 
 
“game-proof fence” in relation to any species of game means a fence which complies with the 
standard prescribed for a game-proof fence in relation to that species of game, but does not include 
any such fence in which a game -trap has been constructed or of which any portion has been 
removed, damaged, cut, flattened or raised or is in such a bad state of repair that the efficacy of 
such fence is impaired; 
 
[definition of “game-proof fence” substituted by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
“game-trap” means any corridor -shaped or funnel -shaped passage in a fence or any other 
construction in a fence along which any game or other wild animals can pass spontaneously 
through such a fence or can be lured to pass through such a fence, but not any such passage 
approved by the Director; 
 
[definition of “game-trap” inserted by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
“honorary nature conservator” means any person appointed as an honorary nature conservator in 
terms of section 79(2) and includes any person who is an honorary nature conservator in terms of 
section 79(3); 
 
“hunt” - 

PAGE 9
Republic of Namibia 9 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
 
(a) for the purposes of any provision of this Ordinance, excluding a  provision of Chapter IV, 
means by any means whatsoever to kill or attempt to kill, or to shoot or attempt to shoot at, 
or to pursue, to search for, to lie in wait for or to drive with intent to kill or to shoot at, or 
wilfully to disturb; 
 
(b) for the purposes of any provision of Chapter IV, means to - 
 
(i) search for, trace, lie in wait for or pursue problem animals; 
 
(ii) set a trap, spring -trap, net, drug, poison or any other means or device approved by 
the Director to capture or kill problem animals; 
 
(iii) shoot at, or with dogs to hunt for, problem animals; 
 
(iv) kill or capture problem animals in any other manner whatsoever approved by the 
Director; 
 
“huntable game” means every species of game mentioned in Schedule 5, or either sex thereof; 
 
“huntable game birds” means every species of game birds mentioned in Schedule 6 or either sex 
thereof; 
 
“hunting season ” in relation to huntable game or huntable game birds means the period 
determined in terms of section 25 as the hunting season during whic h such huntable game or 
huntable game birds may be hunted in terms of section 30 or section 32, as the case may be; 
 
“indigenous plant” means any species of plant, shrub or tree which is indigenous to Namibia , 
irrespective of whether it is or has been cultivated and whether it is no longer growing in a wild 
state or has for some period not been growing in a wild state and includes the flower, seed, fruit, 
bulb, tuber, stem or root or any other part of such plant, shrub or tree, but not any plant declared 
under any law to be a weed; 
 
“keep” means to have game or wild animals in possession or custody, to supervise such game or 
wild animals and to be in full control thereof; 
 
“lessee” in relation to a farm or land or land on which waters are situated, means the person 
leasing such farm or land under a written contract with the owner thereof, and who actually resides 
on such farm or land, but does not include the lessee of a piece of land forming part of communal 
land, unless such piece of land is a surveyed piece of land which is represented on a diagram 
approved by the surveyor-general in terms of the Land Survey Act, 1927 (Act 9 of 1927); 
 
[The definition of “lessee” is amended by Act 27 of 1986. The Land Survey  
Act 9 of 1927 has been replaced by the Land Survey Act 33 of 1993.] 
 
“licensed game dealer” means any person licensed as a game dealer in terms of section 41; 
 
“local authority” means the council of any area declared to be a m unicipality, town or village 
under section 3 of the Local Authorities Act, 1992 (Act 23 of 1992); 
 
[definition of “local authority” substituted by Act 5 of 1996] 
 
“Minister” means the Minister of Environment and Tourism; 
 
[definition of “Minister” inserted by Act 5 of 1996] 
 

PAGE 10
Republic of Namibia 10 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
“nature conservator” means - 
 
(a)  a nature conservator appointed in terms of section 79(1); and 
 
(b)  any member of the security forces; 
  
[definition of “nature conservator” amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
“non-consumptive use” means use not entailing the permanent removal of individual game, but 
use for recreational, educational, research, cultural, or aesthetic purposes; 
 
[definition of “non-consumptive use” inserted by Act 5 of 1996] 
 
“nursery” means sufficiently enclosed premises on which protected plants are cultivated for 
commercial purposes: Provided that such premises shall not be less than 45 square metres in 
extent; 
 
“officer” means any person appointed as an officer under the Government Service Act, 1980 (Act 
2 of 1980); 
 
[The definition of “officer” is amended by Act 27 of 1986. The Government Service Act 2 of 1980 
has been replaced by the Public Service Act 13 of 1995; section 38 of Act 13 of 1995 provides that 
certain expressions relevant to Act 2 of 1980 shall be construed to refer to certain corresponding 
expressions relevant to Act 13 of 1995, but the term “officer” is not covered.] 
 
 “owner” in relation to a farm; land or land on which waters are situated, means 
 
(a) the person who is registered in a deeds reg istry as the owner of such farm or land, and 
includes every director of a company registered in a deeds registry as
 the owner of such 
farm or land; or 
 
[paragraph (a) substituted by Ord. 4 of 1977] 
 
(b) the lawful heir of the owner referred to in paragraph (a) at the death of such owner; or 
 
(c) where such farm or land is subject to a usufruct, the usufractuary thereof; or 
 
[The word “usufructuary” is misspelt in the Official Gazette, as reproduced above.]  
 
(d) where such farm or land is owned by the State, the Government of Namibia; 
 
[paragraph (d) amended by Act 27 of 1986 and substituted by Act 5 of 1996] 
 
(dA)  
 
[paragraph (dA) inserted by Act 27 of 1986 and deleted by Act 5 of 1996] 
 
(e)  where such farm or land is owned by a local authority, the town clerk or the secretary of 
such local authority; 
 
“parents” means the parents of whom a person is the natural child, step-child or lawfully adopted 
child, and includes the husband or wife of any such parent; 
 
“pick” includes to cut off, chop off, pick off, take, gather, uproot, damage or destroy; 
 
[definition of “population group” inserted by Act 27 of 1986 and deleted by Act 5 of 1996] 
 

PAGE 11
Republic of Namibia 11 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
“prescribed” means prescribed by regulation; 
 
“private game park” means any area declared a private game park in terms of section 22; 
 
“private nature reserve” means any area declared a private nature reserve in terms of section 22; 
 
“problem animal” means any animal declared a problem animal in terms of section 53; 
 
“proclaimed road” means a proclaimed road as defined in the Roads Ordinance, 1972 (Ordinance 
17 of 1972); 
 
“protected area” means a geographical area that has been declared to be a game park or nature 
reserve under section 14; 
 
[definition of “protected area” inserted by Act 3 of 2017] 
 
“protected game” means every species of game mentioned in Schedule 4, or either sex thereof; 
 
“protected plant” means every species of plant mentioned in Schedule 9; 
 
“public road” means a public road as defined in the Road Traffic Ordinance, 1967 (Ordinance 30 
of 1967); 
 
[The Road Traffic Ordinance 30 of 1967 has been replaced  
by the Road Traffic and Transport Act 22 of 1999.] 
 
“raw” in relation to a skin means a skin which has not been prepared or tanned till it is soft; 
 
“regulation” means a regulation made and in force under this Ordinance; 
 
 [definition of “representative authority” inserted by  
Act 27 of 1986 and deleted by Act 5 of 1996] 
 
“road reserve” in relation to a proclaimed road means the road reserve of such road as defined in 
the Roads Ordinance, 1972 (Ordinance 17 of 1972); 
 
“Secretary” means the Secretary of Agriculture and Nature Conservation;  
 
[definition of “Secretary” amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
“security forces” means the Namibian Police or the Namibian Defence Force; 
 
[definition of “security forces” inserted by  
Act 27 of 1986 and substituted by Act 5 of 1996] 
 
“sell” means to sell, barter, offer or expose for sale or offer as valuable consideration; 
 
“set line ” means a line and fish -hook which, when used for catching  fish, i s not under the 
immediate supervision of a person but is attached to something, but shall not include a line and 
fish-hook attached to a reel and rod lying loose on the ground; 
 
“skin” includes any portion of a skin; 
 
“small game”, in relation to huntable game, means the following species of such game, namely,  
bushpig, springbok and warthog; 
 

PAGE 12
Republic of Namibia 12 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
[definition of “small game” inserted by Act 6 of 1988] 
 
“specially protected game” means every species of game mentioned in Schedule 3, or either sex 
thereof; 
 
[definition of “Territory” deleted by Act 5 of 1996] 
 
“this Ordinance” includes any proclamation and any regulation made and in force thereunder; 
 
“trophy” means the skin, shell, feet or head, or any part thereof, of game or any other wild animal, 
but shall not include any such skin, shell, feet or head, or any part thereof, which has lost its 
original identity as a result of a bona fide manufacturing process; 
 
“waters” includes waters in rivers, streams, creeks, lakes, lagoons, pans, vleis , dams, reservoirs, 
furrows and ponds; 
 
“weapon” means any fire-arm, spear, assegai, bow -and-arrow, axe, bush-knife, knife or similar 
object and includes any narcotic rifle, pistol or bow; 
 
“wild animal” - 
 
(a) for the purposes of any provision of this Ordinance,  excluding a provision of Chapter IV, 
means any vertebrate (including any bird, fish and reptile), whether kept or bred in captivity 
or elsewhere, belonging to a nondomestic species and the habitat of which is in the 
Republic of South Africa or Namibia; 
 
(b) for the purposes of any provision of Chapter IV, means any vertebrate (including any bird, 
fish and reptile) belonging to a non-domestic species. 
 
[The full stop at the end of this definition should be a semicolon  
now that it is no longer the last definition in the list.] 
 
“wildlife council” means a wild life council established under section 24B(1). 
 
[definition of “wildlife council” inserted by Act 5 of 1996] 
 
Directorate of Nature Conservation and Recreation Resorts  
 
2. A division of the Department of Agriculture and Nature Conservation, to be known 
as the Directorate of Nature Conservation and Recreation Resorts, shall be responsible for the 
regulation, execution and administration of matters concerning the conservation of nature and 
recreation resorts, and the head of such division shall be an officer having the official title of 
Director of Nature Conservation and Recreation Resorts appointed by the Minister subject to the 
provisions of the Government Service Act, 1980 (Act 2 of 1980).  
 
[Section 2 is amended by Act 27 of 1986. The heading of the section is changed without being 
indicated by amendment markings. The Government Service Act 2 of 1980 has been replaced by 
the Public Service Act 13 of 1995; section 38 of Act 13 of 1995 provides that certain expressions 
relevant to Act 2 of 1980 shall be construed to refer to certain corresponding expressions relevant 
to Act 13 of 1995, but the terms “Director”, “head of division” and “officer” are not covered.] 
 
CHAPTER I 
 
NATURE CONSERVATION BOARD 
 
Continued existence of Nature Conservation Board 
 

PAGE 13
Republic of Namibia 13 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
3. The Nature Conservation Board established in terms of section 58 of the Nature 
Conservation Ordinance, 1967 (Ordinance 31 of 1967), shall, notwithstanding the repeal of that 
Ordinance by this Ordinance, continue to exist. 
 
Constitution of board 
 
4.  (1) The board shall consist of at least five and not more than ten members 
appointed by the Minister. 
 
[subsection (1) amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
(2) One of the mem bers of the board shall be designated by the Minister as chairman 
and one as vice-chairman of the board. 
 
(3) Any person who immediately prior to the commencement of this Ordinance is the 
chairman or another member of the board, shall be deemed to have been designated or appointed 
in terms of the provisions of this Ordinance as chairman or member of the board, as the case may 
be, as from the date on which he became the chairman or a member thereof. 
 
(4) The Secretary may, subject to the provisions of the  Government Service Act, 1980 
(Act 2 of 1980), instruct an officer in the Directorate to act as secretary of the board. 
 
[Subsection (4) is amended by Act 27 of 1986. The Government Service Act 2 of 1980 has been 
replaced by the Public Service Act 13 of 1995; section 38 of Act 13 of 1995 provides that certain 
expressions relevant to Act 2 of 1980 shall be construed to refer to certain corresponding 
expressions relevant to Act 13 of 1995, but the term “officer” is not covered.] 
 
Qualifications and disqualifications of members 
 
5. No person shall be appointed or hold office as a member of the board, if he - 
 
(a) has at any time been convicted of any offence for which he has been sentenced to 
imprisonment without the option of a fine, unless he has received a free pardon, or 
unless the period of imprisonment expired at least three years before the date of his 
appointment; or 
 
(b) is of unsound mind and has been so declared by a competent court; or 
 
(c) is an unrehabilitated insolvent; or 
 
(d) is under the age of 21 years. 
 
Period of office 
 
6. (1) A member of the board shall be appointed for a period of three years. 
 
(2) Any person whose period of office as a member of the board has expired, shall be  
eligible for reappointment. 
 
Vacation of office 
 
7. A member of the board shall vacate his office - 
 
(a) if he ceases to possess the qualifications mentioned in section 5, or becomes subject 
to the disqualifications mentioned therein; 
 

PAGE 14
Republic of Namibia 14 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
(b) if he is removed from his office in terms of section 8; 
 
(c) if he resigns as a member. 
 
Termination of membership 
 
8. The Minister may at any time remove any member of the board from his office if 
such member of the board - 
 
(a) has in the opinion of the Minister - 
 
(i) been guilty of improper conduct; or 
 
(ii) regularly neglected his duties as a member of the board; or 
 
(iii)  become, or becomes incompetent for the execution or performance of his 
duties as a member of the board; or 
 
(b) has, without the permission of the chairman of the board, which consent shall not be 
granted for any period exceeding six consecutive months, been absent from four 
consecutive meetings of the board. 
 
Filling of vacancies 
 
9. When any member of the board for any reason ceases to hold office, the Minister  
may, with due observance of the provisions of s ections 4(1) and 5 appoint a person to fill the 
vacancy on the board. 
 
Meetings of the board 
 
10.  (1)  All ordinary meetings of the board shall be held at the times and places 
determined by the board: Provided that, if the board has not determined the time and place for its 
next ordinary meeting at the end of a meeting, the chairman of the board shall determine such 
time and place. 
 
(2) The chairman of the board shall, when directed by the Minister to do so, and may, 
when he deems it necessary or expedient, call a special meeting of the board to be held at a time 
and place determined by the Minister, or by the chairman, as the case may be. 
 
(3) The majority of all the members of the board shall be a quorum for a meeting of the 
board. 
 
(4)  At all meetings of the board the chairman, or if he is absent, the vice-chairman, shall 
preside and if both the chairman and vice -chairman are absent from a meeting of the board the 
members present shall from among themselves elect a person to preside at that meeting. 
 
(5)  (a)  Subject to the provisions of paragraph  (b) a decision of the majority of the 
members of the board present at any meeting of the board, shall constitute a decision 
of the board, and such a decision of the board shall be final and conclusive. 
 
(b) In the event of an equality of votes in regard to any matter the person presiding at 
the meeting concerned shall have a casting vote in addition to his deliberative vote. 
 
(6) Minutes shall be kept of all meetings of the board. 
 

PAGE 15
Republic of Namibia 15 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
(7) No decision taken by the board or act performed under the authority or on the 
recommendation of the board shall be invalid by reason only of an interim vacancy on the board 
or of the fact that a person who is disqualified from being a member of the board sat or acted as 
a member of the board when the deci sion was taken or the act was performed or authorised or 
recommended, if the decision was taken or the act was performed or authorised or recommended 
by the requisite majority of the members of the board who were present at the time and were 
entitled to sit and to act as members. 
 
Functions, powers and duties of the board 
 
11.  (1) The functions, powers and duties of the board shall be - 
 
(a) to advise the Minister in relation to the control, management and maintenance, with 
due observance of the objects mentioned in sections 13(1) and 14(1), of the Etosha 
National Park and other game parks; 
 
(b) to investigate and report on all matters relating to nature conservation referred to the 
board by the Minister; 
 
(c) to make such recomm endations to the Minister as it may deem fit on any matter 
relating to the conservation of nature and the amendment of the laws of Namibia  
relating to the conservation of nature; 
 
(d) at least once in every year to make recommendations to the Minister in respect of 
applications for game dealers’ licences and the prescribing of the levies referred to 
in section 83(2); 
 
(e) to exercise and perform the functions, powers and duties prescribed by regulation; 
 
(f)  to fulfil those other tasks which fall within th e objects of this Ordinance and are 
entrusted to the board by the Minister. 
 
(2) Any person who hinders, obstructs , resists or disturbs the board as such or any 
member of the board in the performance of its or his duties, or the exercise of its or his functions 
or powers, shall be guilty of an offence. 
 
Remuneration, allowances and fees 
 
12. A member of the board shall  receive no remuneration, but to those members of the 
board who are not officers in, or employees of, the govern ment service, shall be paid such 
allowances and fees as may be determined by the Minister from time to time. 
 
[section 12 amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
CHAPTER II 
 
Game Parks, Nature Reserves, Conservancies and Wildlife Councils 
 
[heading of Chapter II substituted by Act 5 of 1996, with capitalisation as reproduced above] 
 
Etosha National Park 
 
13. (1) The area defined in Schedule 2 and known as th e Etosha National Park shall 
be a game park for the propagation, protection, study and preservation therein of wild animal life, 
wild plant life and objects of geological, ethnological, archaeological, historical and other 

PAGE 16
Republic of Namibia 16 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
scientific interest and for the b enefit and enjoyment of the inhabitants of Namibia  and other 
persons. 
 
(2) The boundaries of the Etosha National Park shall be amended by ordinance only. 
 
(3) No emergency grazing shall be allowed in the Etosha National Park. 
 
Establishment and objects of game parks and nature reserves 
 
14. (1) The Minister may declare any area a game park  or a nature reserve for the 
propagation, protection, study and preservation therein of the wild animal life, fisheries, wild 
plant life and objects  of geological, ethnological, archaeological, historical and other scientific 
interest and for the benefit and enjoyment of the inhabitants of Namibia and other persons. 
 
(2) Any such declaration of an area as a game park or a nature reserve shall be made 
known by notice in the Official Gazette. 
 
Amendment of boundaries of game parks and nature reserves 
 
15. (1) The Minister may from time to time amend the boundaries of any game park 
(except those of the Etosha National Park) or any nature reserve. 
 
(2) Any such amendment of the boundaries of a game park or nature reserve shall be 
made known by notice in the Official Gazette. 
 
Withdrawal of declaration as a game park or nature reserve 
 
16. (1) The Minister may at any time withdraw the declaration of an area as a game 
park or a nature reserve. 
 
(2) Any such withdrawal of the declaration of an area as a game park or a nature reserve 
shall be made known by notice in the Official Gazette. 
 
Powers of Minister in relation to game parks, nature reserves and other protected areas 
 
[heading of section 17 substituted by Act 3 of 2017] 
 
17. (1) The Minister shall control, manage and maintain game parks and nature 
reserves. 
 
(2) The Minister may within a game park or a nature reserve - 
 
(a) lay out and construct  such roads, bridges, buildings, water installations,  fences, 
breakwaters, seawalls, boathouses, landing stages, mooring places and swimming 
pools and carry out such other works as it may consider  necessary for the control, 
management or maintenance of the game park or nature reserve; 
 
(b) take such steps as will ensure the safety of the animal and plant life and fisheries in 
the game park or nature reserve and the conservation of the game park or nature 
reserve and the animals, vegetation and fish therein in a natural state; 
 
(c) reserve areas as breeding places for animals or fish or nurseries for trees, shrubs, 
plants and flowers and set aside zones for such purposes as it may deem necessary 
or desirable; 
 

PAGE 17
Republic of Namibia 17 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
(d) provide accommodation for visitors to the game park or nature reserve and facilities 
in connection therewith; 
 
(e) provide meals and refreshments to visitors to the game park or nature reserve against 
payment of the fees determined by the Minister from time to time, tariffs of which 
shall be displayed at a prominent place at the res taurant or other place where such 
meals and refreshments are provided: Provided that the Minister may so determine 
different tariffs for different game parks and nature reserves; 
 
(f)  carry on any business or trade for the convenience of visitors to the g ame park or 
nature reserve; 
 
(g) supply any other service for the convenience of visitors to the game park or nature 
reserve; 
 
(h) establish, erect, equip and maintain any building, structure, depot or premises 
required in connection with any matter referred to in paragraph (a), (e), (f) or (g), or 
let any premises required for such a purpose; 
 
(i)  make such charges in connection with any such matter as it may determine; 
 
(j)  authorise any person to carry on, subject to such conditions and the payment of such 
charges as it may deem fit, any activities which may be carried on by the Minister in 
terms of paragraph (e), (f) or (g). 
 
(k)  establish a renewable electricity source for the purposes of the management of game 
parks, nature reserves and other protected areas or protection of the environment or 
the combating of climate change. 
 
[paragraph (k) inserted by Act 3 of 2017; the full stop after paragraph (j)  
should accordingly be changed to a semicolon]  
 
(3)  The Minister may grant concessions authorising other persons - 
 
(a)  to conduct tourism or activities related to the sustainable commercial use of wildlife 
resources; or 
 
(b)  provide services related to the conducting of tourism or the use of wildlife resources, 
on behalf of the State in protected areas or other areas of State land. 
 
[subsection (3) inserted by Act 3 of 2017] 
 
(4)  A concession referred to in subsection (3) - 
 
(a)  must contribute to the Ministry in meeting its objectives concerning protected areas 
or wildlife resources under its jurisdiction; and 
 
(b)  is granted in accordance with this Act and any other relevant law and in the 
furtherance of State policies and programmes and the objectives outlined in 
subsection (5). 
 
[subsection (4) inserted by Act 3 of 2017] 
 
(5)  The objectives of granting such concessions shall be to - 
 

PAGE 18
Republic of Namibia 18 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
(a)  enhance the conservation of biodiversity and the  maintenance of the ecological 
integrity of protected areas and other State land; 
 
(b)  enhance the ability of the Ministry to effectively manage protected areas and wildlife 
resources on other State land where applicable and to control and monitor  tourism 
operations and other commercial use of wild animal or plant resources; 
 
(c)  enhance the role of protected areas in sustainable and  responsible tourism 
development in Namibia; 
 
(d)  enhance through concessions the economic  empowerment of formerly 
disadvantaged Namibians and rural communities living in and around protected  
areas and their entrance into the tourism and other wildlife-based industries; 
 
(e)  promote the allocation of concessions through equitable, competitive and transparent 
mechanisms that produce tourism products of a high standard; 
 
(f)  diversify tourism options and attractions in protected areas and other State land; and 
 
(g)  generate revenue for employment creation, conservation and poverty reduction. 
 
[subsection (5) inserted by Act 3 of 2017] 
 
(6)  In case of concessions awarded on State land that is  not a protected area, a right of 
leasehold from the communal land board concerned is r equired in terms of Part 2 of the 
Communal Land Reform Act, 2002 (Act No. 5 of 2002). 
 
[subsection (6) inserted by Act 3 of 2017] 
 
(7)  The Minister shall prescribe a process to award concessions on a competitive basis, 
taking into account such factors as the Minister determines to ensure fairness and the achievement 
of the objectives specified in subsection (5). 
 
[subsection (7) inserted by Act 3 of 2017] 
 
(8)  The Minister may award a concession in a protected  area or on other State land 
directly to a rur al community that is resident  in such area or on such land or neighboring a 
protected area, but the  award of such concession shall be consistent with the management  
objectives of the protected area in question. 
 
[subsection (8) inserted by Act 3 of 2017] 
 
(9)  The Minister shall appoint a committee of staff  members of the Ministry and other 
persons with appropriate knowledge and expertise to oversee the process of identifying, awarding 
and monitoring concessions according to the prescribed criteria and procedure. 
 
[subsection (9) inserted by Act 3 of 2017] 
 
(10)  The Minister may impose any conditions on an existing or future concession in order 
to protect the environment. 
 
[subsection (10) inserted by Act 3 of 2017] 
 
(11)  No concession shall be transferred, varied or extended without the prior written 
approval of the Minister who may impose  conditions relating to such transfer, variation or 
extension. 

PAGE 19
Republic of Namibia 19 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
 
[subsection (11) inserted by Act 3 of 2017] 
 
(12)  The Minister shall grant a concession that is in line with the management objectives 
and management plan of the protected area for which an application for concessions has been 
made. 
 
[subsection (12) inserted by Act 3 of 2017] 
 
(13)  The Minister shall prescribe requirements relating to  the adminis tration of 
concessions, including the conduct of regular  rental reviews, the duration of concessions, the 
period of time after  which the concession agreement may be automatically terminated if the  
concession holder does not operate the concession and charge market related fees for concessions. 
 
[subsection (13) inserted by Act 3 of 2017] 
 
Restriction of right to enter game parks and nature reserves and prohibition of certain acts 
therein 
 
18. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Ordinance contained, but 
subject to the provisions of subsection (2) and sections 19 and 21, no person shall without the 
written permission of the Minister - 
 
(a) enter or reside in a game park or a nature reserve; 
 
(b) convey into a game park or a nature reserve or, within the confines thereof be in 
possession of, any weapon, explosive, trap or poison; 
 
(c) within a game park or a nature reserve wilfully or negligently injure, capture or 
disturb any animal or remove or destroy any egg or nest of any bird; 
 
(d) wilfully or negligently cause any veld fire or any damage to any object of geological, 
ethnological, archaeological, historical or other scientific interest within a game park 
or a nature reserve; 
 
(e) introduce any animal into or permit any live -stock or domestic animal to enter a 
game park or a nature reserve; 
 
(f)  remove from a game park or a nature reserve any animal, whether dead or alive, or 
any part of an animal, other than an animal lawfully introduced into such game park 
or nature reserve; 
 
(fA)  in any waters in a game park or nature reserve - 
 
(i)  catch or attempt to catch fish, whether or not such person is the holder of a 
fishing licence issued under any law governing inland fisheries resources; or 
 
(ii)  place or release any fish; 
 
(iii)  place or dump any explosive or any poison or other noxious material or 
substance which may be harmful to fish or their environment” 
 
[paragraph (fA) inserted by Act 1 of 2003] 
 
(g) pick any indigenous plant in a game park or a nature reserve; 
 

PAGE 20
Republic of Namibia 20 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
(h) chop, cut or destroy any tree in a game park or a nature reserve: 
 
Provided that - 
 
(i)  a member of the security forces acting officially and whose action is directly 
connected with the exercise of his official duties shall be exempted from the 
provisions of paragr aphs (a), (b) and ( e), except those provisions of paragraph (b) 
relating to the conveyance into or possession in a game park or nature reserve of any 
trap or poison; and 
 
(ii) an officer of the Directorate, or a member of the board acting officially and whose 
action is directly conncected with the exercise of his official duties or with the 
execution of the powers vested in him in terms of this Ordinance shall be exempted 
from all the provisions of this subsection. 
 
[Subsection (1) is amended by Act 27 of 1986. The word “connected”  
is misspelt in the Official Gazette, as reproduced above. There should be a comma after the word 
“Ordinance” to properly offset the phrase “or a member of the board acting officially and  
whose action is directly connected with the exercise of his official duties or with the  
execution of the powers vested in him in terms of this Ordinance”.] 
 
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions  of subsections (1) but subject to the conditions, 
requirements and restrictions prescribed or imposed by or in terms of this Ordinance, any person 
may - 
 
(a) travel in a vehicle along a prescribed route through a prescribed game park or nature 
reserve; 
 
(b) convey an animal or an object mentioned in subsection (1)(b) in a vehicle along a 
prescribed route through a prescribed game park or nature reserve. 
 
(3) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of this section or 
any condition, requirement or restriction of any permission granted thereunder shall be guilty of 
an offence and liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding five hundred rand or to imprisonment 
for a period not exceeding six months or to both such fine and such imprisonment. 
 
Purposes for which permission to enter game parks and nature reserves may be granted 
 
19. The permission to enter and reside in a game park or a nature reserve mentioned in 
section 18(1)(a) may be granted only for the purposes of - 
 
(a) health, study, recreation or other incidental matters; 
 
(b) travel or transport along the routes prescribed by regulation; or 
 
(c) transacting any lawful business. 
 
Prohibition of hunting in game parks and nature reserves 
 
20. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Ordinance contained, no 
person shall, without the written permission of the Minister, hunt any animal in any game park or 
any nature reserve: Provided that a dangerous animal may be killed in defence of a human life or 
to prevent a human being from being injured. 
 

PAGE 21
Republic of Namibia 21 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
(2) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of subsection (1) 
or any condition, requirement or restriction of any permission granted thereunder, shall be guilty 
of an offence and liable on conviction - 
 
(a) to a fine not exceeding R200 000 or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding 
twenty years or to both suc h fine and such imprisonment if such offence relates to 
the hunting of any elephant or rhinoceros; or 
 
(b) to a fine not exceeding R20 000 or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding five 
years or to both such fine and such imprisonment if such offence r elates to the 
hunting of any other specially protected game; or 
 
(c)  to a fine not exceeding R16 000 or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding four 
years or to both such fine and such imprisonment if such offence relates to the 
hunting of any other animal. 
 
[subsection (2) amended by Act 27 of 1986 and by Act 31 of 1990] 
 
Killing of animals trespassing in game parks or nature reserves 
 
21. A nature conservator may at any time - 
 
(a)  kill any dog found in a game park or a nature reserve, other than any such dog which 
is in the lawful possession or under the lawful charge of an officer or a member of 
the security forces or which is being conveyed through such game park or nature 
reserve in accordance with the provisions of section 18; 
 
(b)  kill any donk ey, horse or other riding or pack -animal found in a game park or a 
nature reserve, other than any such donkey, horse or other riding or pack -animal 
which is in the lawful possession or under the lawful charge of an officer or a member 
of the security forces or which is being conveyed through such game park or nature 
reserve in accordance with the provisions of section 18, and may seize the saddles 
and bridles thereof, of any; 
 
(c)  with the consent of the Minister, kill any livestock or domestic animal foun d in a 
game park or a nature reserve, other than any such livestock or domestic animal 
which is in the lawful possession or under the lawful charge of an officer or which 
is being conveyed through such game park or nature reserve in accordance with the 
provisions of section 18. 
 
[section 21 amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
Establishment of private game parks and private nature reserves 
 
22. (1) (a) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2), (3), (4) and (5) the Minister 
may at any time and subject to such conditions as it may deem necessary or expedient 
declare any area a private game park or private nature reserve for the period 
determined by it or until the declaration of the area concerned as a private game park 
or private nature reserve is withdrawn. 
 
(b) Any such declaration of an area as a private game park or a private nature reserve 
shall be made known by notice in the Official Gazette. 
 
(2) An area shall only be declared a private game park or a private nature reserve on the 
written application of the owner of the land concerned. 

PAGE 22
Republic of Namibia 22 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
 
(3) (a) No area shall be declared a private game park or a private nature reserve unless 
a notice of the application to do so has at least three months previously at the cost of 
the applicant been published in the Official Gazette and in two newspapers 
circulating in Namibia. 
 
(b) The notice referred to in paragraph (a) shall request any person who wishes to object 
to the declaration of the area concerned as a private game park or a private nature 
reserve to lodge his object ions with the person or officer mentioned in the notice 
within a period mentioned in the notice, which objections shall be submitted to and 
considered by the Minister together with the application concerned. 
 
(4) (a) The Minister may at any time withdraw the declaration of an area as a private 
game park or a private nature reserve. 
 
(b) Any such withdrawal of the declaration of an area as a private game park or a private 
nature reserve shall be made known by notice in the Official Gazette. 
 
(5) The declaration of an area as a private game park or a private nature reserve shall in 
no way derogate from the provisions of Chapter IV and shall apply subject to the provisions of 
the said Chapter IV. 
 
Prohibition of hunting in private game parks 
 
23. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Ordinance contained, but 
subject to the provisions of Chapter IV, no person shall without the written approval of the 
Minister hunt any game or any other wild animal or bird in a private game park: Provided that the 
owner of the land concerned may at any time hunt any game or any other wild animal or bird on 
such land, except specially protected and protected game. 
 
(2) The Minister shall not grant any approval in terms of subsection (1) unless the owner 
of the land concerned has granted his permission thereto. 
 
(3) The approval referred to in subsection (1) shall be granted subject to the conditions, 
requirements and restrictions imposed by the Minister with due allowance for the permission of 
the owner of the land concerned. 
 
(4) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of subsection (1) 
or any condition, requirement or restriction of any approval granted in terms of this section shall 
be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction - 
 
(a) to a fine not less than one thousand one hundred and fifty rand and not exceeding 
two thousand five hundred rand or to imprisonment for a period of not less than two 
years and not exceeding six years or to both such fine and such imprisonment if such 
offence relates to the hunting of specially protected game; 
 
(b) to a fine not less than seven hundred and fifty rand and not exceeding one thousand 
five hundred rand or to imprisonment for a period of not less than twelve months and 
not exceeding three years or to both such fine and such imprisonment if such offence 
relates to the hunting of any other game or wild animal. 
 
Prohibition of picking of indigenous plants in private nature reserves 
 
24. (1) No person shall without the written approval of the Minister pick any 
indigenous plant, or any portion of an indigenous plant, in a private nature reserve: Provided that 

PAGE 23
Republic of Namibia 23 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
the owner of the land concerned may at any time pick any indigenous plant, other than a protected 
plant, on such land. 
 
(2) The Minister shall not grant any approval in terms of subsection (1) unless the owner 
of the land concerned has granted his permission thereto. 
 
(3) The approval referred to in subsection (1) shall be granted subject to the conditions, 
requirements and restrictions imposed by the Minister with due allowance for the permission of 
the owner of the land concerned. 
 
(4)  Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of subsection (1) 
or any condition, requirement or restriction of any approval granted in terms of this section, shall 
be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding five hundred rand or to 
imprisonment for a period not exceeding six months or to both such fine and such imprisonment. 
 
Conservancies  
 
24A. (1) Any group of persons residing on communal land and which desires to have 
the area which they inhabit, or any part thereof, to be declared a conservancy, shall apply therefor 
to the Minister in the prescribed manner, and such application shall be accompanied by - 
 
(a)  a list of the names of the persons who are members of a committee established for 
the purpose of being recognised by the Minister under subsection (2)(ii) as the 
conservancy committee for the conservancy applied for; 
 
(b)  the constitution of such committee; 
 
(c)  a statement setting out the boundaries of the geographic area in respect of which the 
application is made; and 
 
(d)  such other documents or information as the Minister may require. 
 
(2)  If the Minister is satisfied in respect of an appli cation made in terms of subsection 
(1) that - 
 
(a)  the relevant committee is representative of the community residing in the area to 
which the application relates; 
 
(b)  the constitution of such committee provides for the sustainable management and 
utilization of game in such area; 
 
(c)  such committee has the ability to manage funds and has an appropriate method for 
the equitable distribution, to members of the community, of benefits derived from 
the consumptive and non-consumptive use of game in such area; 
 
(d)  the geograhic area to which the application relates has been sufficiently identified, 
taking into account also the views of the Regional Council of that area; 
 
[The word “geographic” is misspelt in the Official Gazette, as reproduced above.]  
 
(e)  the area concerned is not subject to any lease or is not a proclaimed game park or 
nature reserve; and 
 
(f) any other prescribed requirements have been complied with, 
 

PAGE 24
Republic of Namibia 24 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
the Minister shall - 
 
(i) in writing to the committee in question and on such conditions as he or she may 
determine in  addition to any prescribed condition or restriction, recognize that 
committtee as the conservancy committee for the conservancy concerned; and 
 
[The word “committee” is misspelt in its second use in paragraph (i), as reproduced above.]  
 
(ii)  by notice in the Gazette declare the area to which the application relates as a 
conservancy, and such notice shall set out the geographic boundaries of the area in 
respect of which the conservancy is being declared. 
 
(3) (a) The Minister may, subject to paragraphs (b) and (c), at any time - 
 
(i)  withdraw his or her recognition of a conservancy committee given under 
subsection (2)(i); 
 
(ii)  amend or withdraw any condition imposed under subsection (2)(i); or 
 
(iii) amend or withdraw any notice made under subsection (2)(ii). 
 
(b)  Before the Minister under paragraph (a) withdraws the recognition of a conservancy 
committee or amends or withdraws any condition or notice , he or she shall in 
writing - 
 
(i)  inform the conservancy committee of his or her intention to do so; 
 
(ii) furnish the conservancy committee with the reasons for the intended 
withdrawal or amendment, in question; and 
 
(iii)  call upon the conservancy committee to show cause within a period specified, 
why the withdrawal or amendment in question should not be effected. 
 
(c)  After considering any representations received within the specified period from the 
conservancy committee concerned by virtue of the provisions of paragraph (b) (iii), 
the Minister may in his or her discretion - 
 
(i)  proceed in terms of paragraph (a) with the withdrawal or amendment in 
question; or 
 
(ii)  refrain from taking any steps in terms of paragraph (a),  
 
and the Minister shall in writing inform the conservancy committee concerned of his 
or her decision in terms of this paragraph. 
 
(4)  Notwithstanding section 28 and subject to subsection (5) of this section, a 
conservancy committee shall on behalf of the community in a conservancy or in respect of which 
a conservancy has been declared have rights and duties with regard to the consumptive and non-
consumptive use and sustainable management of game in such conservancy, in order to enable 
the members of such community to derive benefits from such use and management.  
 
(5)  The provisions of Part III shall mutatis mutandis apply to a conservancy committee 
insofar as it confer rights and privileges and imposes duties and obligations on an owner or a 
lessee of land in relation to game on such land, except that no requirement of any such provision 

PAGE 25
Republic of Namibia 25 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
with regard to any fence or the extent of any land or any provision classifying land for a prescribed 
type of fence shall apply to any conservancy. 
 
 [section 24A inserted by Act 5 of 1996] 
 
Wildlife councils  
 
24B. (1) The Minister may, after consultation with a community residing on communal 
land and if all the prescribed requirements have been met, establish a wildlife council for the area, 
or any part thereof, in which such community resides on such conditions as he or she may 
determine in addition to any prescribed condition or restriction: Provided that no such area shall 
include any conservancy, any land subject to any lease, or any proclaimed game park or nature 
reserve. 
 
(2)  The Minister shall give notice in the Gazette of any wildlife council established 
under subsection (1), and such notice shall set out the geographic boundaries of the area in respect 
of which the wildlife council has been so established.  
 
(3) (a)  The Minister may, subject to paragraphs (b) and (c), at any time - 
 
(i)  dissolve a wildlife council; 
 
(ii) amend or withdraw any condition imposed under subsection (1); or 
 
(iii) amend or withdraw any notice made under subsection (2). 
 
(b)  Before the Minister under paragraph (a) dissolves a wildlife council or amends or 
withdraws any condition or notice, he or she shall in writing - 
 
(i)  inform the wildlife council of his or her intention to do so; 
 
(ii)  furnish the wildlife council with the reasons for the intended dissolution, 
amendment or withdrawal in question; and 
 
(iii)  call upon the wildlife council to show cause within a period specified, why the 
dissolution, amendment or withdrawal in question should not be effected. 
 
(c)  After considering any representations received within the specified period from the 
wildlife council concerned by virtue of the provisions of paragraph (b)(iii), the 
Minister may in his or her discretion - 
 
(i)  proceed in terms of paragraph (a) with the dissolution, amendment or 
withdrawal in question; or  
 
(ii)  refrain from taking any steps in terms of paragraph (a), 
 
and the Minister shall in writing inform the wildlife committee concerned of his or 
her decision in terms of this paragraph.  
 
(4)  Notwithstanding section 28 and subject to subsection (5) of this section, a wildlife 
council shall on behalf of the community in the area for which such council has been established 
have rights and duties with regard to the consumptive and non- consumptive use and sustainable 
management of game in such area, in order to enable the members of such community to derive 
benefits from such use and management. 
 

PAGE 26
Republic of Namibia 26 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
(5)  The provisions of Part III shall mutatis mutandis apply to a wildlife council insofar 
as it confer rights and privileges and imposes duties and obligations on an owner or a lessee of 
land in relation to game on such land, except that no requirement of any such provision with 
regard to any fence or the extent of any land or any provision classifying land for a prescribed 
type of fence shall apply to any wildlife council. 
 
[section 24B inserted by Act 5 of 1996] 
 
CHAPTER III 
 
WILD ANIMALS 
 
Powers of Minister in relation to hunting seasons and classification of game 
 
25. (1) The Minister may from time to time - 
 
(a) in any year determine hunting seasons during which game mentioned in Schedule 5 
or 6 or Schedules 5 and 6 or any species or sex thereof may be hunted in terms of 
the provisions of section 30 or 32 or sections 30 and 32, as the case may be, but 
subject to the other provisions of this Ordinance; 
 
(b) restrict the number of any species or sex of game which may be hunted during a 
hunting season; 
 
(c) amend Schedules 3, 4, 5 and 6 by deleting the name of any species or sex of game 
or by transferring such name from any such schedule to another or by adding to any 
such schedule the name of any species or sex of wild animal which is not included 
in any of the said schedules. 
 
(2) Any determination of a hunting season, restriction of a species or sex of game which 
may be hunted during a hunting season or amendment of Schedule 3, 4, 5 or 6 in terms of 
subsection (1) shall be made known by notice in the Official Gazette. 
 
(3) Any hunting season or amendment of any such schedule may, subject to the 
provisions of subsection (4), be made applicable to the entire Territory or to any part or parts of 
Namibia defined in such notice. 
 
[Act 5 of 1996 makes a global substitution of “Namibia” for “the Territory’’,  
but this substitution does not apply to subsection (3) which uses the phrase  
“the entire Territory” rather than “the Territory”.]  
 
(4) No amendment of such schedules whereby the name of any species or sex of game 
is transferred from Schedule 5 or Schedule 6 to Schedule 3 or Schedule 4 or  whereby the name 
of any species or sex of wild animal is added to Schedule 3 or  Schedule 4 shall be applicable in 
respect of - 
 
(a) any farm; or 
 
(b) any piece of land 
 
which is not less than one thousand hectares in extent and is enclosed with a game-proof fence. 
 
[There is no punctuation mark at the end of paragraph (b) in the Official Gazette.] 
 
Hunting of specially protected game 
 

PAGE 27
Republic of Namibia 27 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
26. (1) No person other than the lawful holder of a permit granted by the Minister  
shall at any time hunt any specially protected game. 
 
(2) A permit granted in terms of this section authorises the lawful holder thereof subject 
to the conditions, requirements and restrictions imposed by or under this Ordinance to hunt the 
number and species of specially protected game mentioned therein at the time and place 
mentioned therein. 
 
(3)  Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of subsection (1) 
or any condition, requirement or restriction of a  permit granted in terms of this section, shall be 
guilty of an offence and liable on conviction - 
 
(a)  to a fine not exceeding N$25 000 000 or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding 
25 years, or to both such fine and such imprisonment if such offence relates  to the 
hunting of any elephant or rhinoceros; or 
 
(b)  to a fine not exceeding N$10 000 000 or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding 
10 years, or to both such fine and such imprisonment if such offence relates to the 
hunting of any other specially protected game, 
 
but if such person has been previously convicted of an offence referred to in paragraph (a) or (b), 
he or she is liable to a fine not exceeding N$50 000 000 or to imprisonment for a period not 
exceeding 40 years, or to both such fine or such imprisonment. 
 
[subsection (3) amended by Act 27 of 1986 and by Act 31 of 1990,  
and substituted by Act 3 of 2017] 
 
(4)  (a) No provision contained in this section shall prohibit the owner or lessee of 
land or the occupier of communal land from killing specially protected game on such 
land in defence of a human life or to prevent a human being from being injured or to 
protect the life of any livestock, poultry or domestic animal of such owner, lessee or 
occupier whilst the life of such livestock, poultry or domestic animal is actually 
being threatened. 
 
[paragraph (a) amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
(b) Any person who kills specially protected ga me in terms of the provisions of this 
subsection shall report it in writing to the nearest nature conservator or at the nearest 
police office within ten days thereafter. 
 
(c) Any person who fails or neglects to comply with the provisions of paragraph (b) 
shall be guilty of an offence. 
 
(5) Any person who hunts specially protected game under a permit granted in terms of 
this section, shall at all times have such permit in his possession while he is so hunting. 
 
[subsection (5) inserted by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
(6)  Any person who has hunted any specially protected game under a permit granted in 
terms of this section, shall endorse - 
 
(a)  the species of specially protected game and the number of each of such species which 
he has hunted under such permit; 
 
(b)  the date on which he has so hunted it; and 
 

PAGE 28
Republic of Namibia 28 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
(c)  the name of the farm or a description of the land on which he has so hunted it, 
 
on such permit in ink or indelible pencil and shall sign it before he leaves the farm or land on 
which he has hunted such specially protected game. 
 
[subsection (6) inserted by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
(7)  Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of subsection (5) 
or (6), shall be guilty of an offence. 
 
[subsection (7) inserted by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
Hunting of protected game 
 
27. (1) No person other than the lawful holder of a permit granted by the Minister  
shall at any time hunt any protected game. 
 
(2) A permit granted in terms of this section authorises the lawful holder thereof subject 
to the conditions, requirements and restrictions imposed by or under this Ordinance to hunt the 
number and species of protected game mentioned therein at the time and place mentioned therein. 
 
(3) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of subsection (1) 
or any condition, requirement or restriction of a permit granted in terms of this section, shall be 
guilty of an offence, and liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding N$500 000 or to 
imprisonment for a period not exceeding five years, or to both such fine and such imprisonment. 
 
[subsection (3) amended by Act 27 of 1986 and substituted by Act 3 of 2017] 
 
(3A)  If the person referred to in subsection (3) has been previously convicted of an offence 
referred to in that subsection, he or she is liable to a fine not exceeding N$1  000 000 or to 
imprisonment for a period not exceeding 10 years, or to both such fine or such imprisonment.  
 
[subsection (3A) inserted by Act 3 of 2017] 
 
(4)  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Ordinance contained, the owner or 
lessee of a farm or piece of land which is not less than one thousand hectares in extent may, if 
such farm or piece of land is enclosed with jackal -proof fencing, at any time and by any means 
whatsoever kill any antbear or honey badger found on such farm or piece of land and any steenbok 
which is lawfully on such farm or piece of land shall be deemed to be huntable game to which 
such owner or lessee shall have the right of ownership: Provided that - 
 
(a)  for the purposes of the provisions of this subsection “owner” shall not include a town 
clerk or the secretary of a local authority; 
 
(b) for the purposes of the provisions of this subsection relating to steenbok, “ lessee” 
shall not include the lessee of a farm or land, who is not the owner of t he huntable 
game, huntable game birds and exotic game on such farm or land. 
 
(5)  (a) No provision contained in this section shall prohibit the owner or lessee of 
land or the occupier of communal land from killing protected game on such land in 
defence of a human life or to prevent a human being from being injured or to protect 
the life of any livestock, poultry or domestic animal of such owner, lessee or occupier 
whilst the life of such livestock, poultry or domestic animal is actually being 
threatened. 
 

PAGE 29
Republic of Namibia 29 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
[paragraph (a) amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
(b) Any person who kills protected game in terms of the provisions of this subsection 
shall report it in writing to the nearest nature conservator or at the nearest police 
office within ten days thereafter. 
 
(c) Any person who fails or neglects to comply with the provisions of paragraph (b)  
shall be guilty of an offence. 
 
(6) Any person who hunts protected game under a permit granted in terms of this section, 
shall at all times have such permit in his possession while he is so hunting. 
 
[subsection (6) inserted by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
(7)  Any person who has hunted any protected game under a permit granted in terms of 
this section, shall endorse - 
 
(a)  the species of protected game and the number of each of such species which he has 
hunted under such permit; 
 
(b)  the date on which he has so hunted it; and  
 
(c)  the name of the farm or a description of the land on which he has so hunted it, 
 
on such permit in ink or indelible pencil and shall sign it before he leaves the farm or land on 
which he has hunted such protected game. 
 
[subsection (7) inserted by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
(8)  Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of subsection (6) 
or (7), shall be guilty of an offence. 
 
[subsection (8) inserted by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
Hunting on State land  
 
28.  (1) (a)  Subject to the provisions of sections 24A and 24B and Chapter IV, no 
person shall without the written permission of the Minister hunt any huntable game, 
huntable game bird or exotic game or any other wild animal on any land, including 
communal land, owned by the State. 
 
(b)  For the purpose of paragraph (a) land leased by the Government of Namibia shall, 
unless an intention to the contrary appears from the lease, and unless, in the case of 
communal land, the land leased is an unsurveyed piece of land, be deemed not to be 
land owned by the State. 
 
(c)  Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of paragraph (a) 
or any condition, requirement or restriction of any written permission granted 
thereunder, shall be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine not 
exceeding R4 000 or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding four years, or to 
both such fine and such imprisonment. 
 
[subsection (1) amended by Act 5 of 1996; not all punctuation  
changes are indicated by amendment markings] 
 

PAGE 30
Republic of Namibia 30 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
(2) (a) Any person who hunts any huntable game, huntable game bird or exotic game 
or any other wild animal under the writte n permission of the Minister  granted in 
terms of this section, on land, including communal land, owned by the State, shall at 
all times have such written permission in his possession while he is so hunting. 
 
(b)  Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of paragraph (a) 
shall be guilty of an offence. 
 
[section 28 amended by Act 27 of 1986; heading changed  
without being indicated by amendment markings] 
 
Right of ownership to huntable game, huntable game birds and exotic game 
 
29. (1) The owner of - 
 
(a) a farm which is enclosed with a game-proof fence or an adequate fence; 
 
(b) any piece of land which is not less than one thousand hectares in extent and enclosed 
with a game-proof fence, 
 
shall, subject to the provisions of this Ordina nce, be the owner of all huntable game, huntable 
game birds and exotic game on such farm or piece of land as long as such huntable game, huntable 
game birds and exotic game are lawfully on such farm or piece of land and as long as such farm 
or piece of land remains to be enclosed in that manner. 
 
(2) The lessee of - 
 
(a) a farm which is enclosed with a game-proof fence or an adequate fence; 
 
(b) any piece of land which is not less than one thousand hectares in extent and enclosed 
with a game-proof fence, 
 
shall, subject to the provisions of this Ordinance, and unless the contract under which he leases 
such farm or piece of land specifically provides otherwise, be the owner of all huntable game, 
huntable game birds and exotic game on such farm or piece of land as long as such huntable game, 
huntable game birds and exotic game are lawfully on such farm or piece of land and as long as 
such farm or piece of land remains to be enclosed in that manner. 
 
Hunting of huntable game under owner’s authority 
 
30.  (1)  (a) Save as is otherwise provided in this Ordinance, no person other than 
the lawful holder of a permit granted by the Minister shall hunt any huntable game. 
 
[paragraph (a) amended by Act 6 of 1988] 
 
(aA) Subject to the provisions of this Ordinance, a permit for the hunting of huntable game 
shall be granted - 
 
(i)  only if the person who applies for such a permit produces a written authority 
granted to him in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b); and 
 
(ii)  only in respect of the hunting of such species of huntable game, and the 
number of each such species, mentioned in the written authority referred to in 
paragraph (b), but in no case in respect of huntable game exceeding the one or 
the other of the following numbers of such game, namely: 

PAGE 31
Republic of Namibia 31 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
 
(aa)  three head of big game; or  
 
(bb)  two head of big game and four head of small game; or 
 
(cc)  one head of big game and eight head of small game; or 
 
(dd)  twelve head of small game: 
 
Provided that the limitations mentioned in sub-paragraph (ii)(aa), (bb), (cc) and (dd) 
shall not apply in the case where a permit is granted for the hunting of huntable game 
on a farm which is enclosed with a game-proof fence. 
 
[paragraph (aA) inserted by Act 6 of 1988] 
 
 (b) The written authority referred to in paragraph (aA) - 
 
[introductory phrase of paragraph (b) substituted by Act 6 of 1988] 
 
(i) shall be granted only by the owner or lessee of a farm which is enclosed with 
a game-proof fence or an adequate fence or by the owner or lessee  of a piece 
of land which is not less than one thousand hectares in extent and enclosed 
with a game-proof fence; 
 
(ii) shall be granted by such owner or lessee only in respect of the hunting of 
huntable game which is on such farm or piece of land and of which he is the 
owner in terms of this Or dinance: Provided that such owner shall not grant 
any such authority in respect of the hunting of any such huntable game of 
which he is the owner but has leased the right to hunt it; 
 
(iiA) shall be granted by such owner or lessee only in respect  of the hunting of 
huntable game not exceeding the one or the other of the following numbers of 
such game, namely: 
 
(aa)  three head of big game; or 
 
(bb)  two head of big game and four head of small game; or 
 
(cc)  one head of big game and eight head of small game; or 
 
(dd) twelve head of small game: 
 
Provided that the provisions of this subparagraph shall not apply to the owner 
or lessee of a farm which is enclosed with a gameproof fence; 
 
[subparagraph (iiA) inserted by Act 6 of 1988; “gameproof” is  
spelt with a hyphen as “game-proof” elsewhere in the Ordinance] 
 
(iii) shall be in ink or indelible pencil and shall contain - 
 
(aa) the name and full residential address of the person by whom such 
authority is granted; 
 
(bb)  the name and full residential  address of the person to whom such 
authority is granted; 
 

PAGE 32
Republic of Namibia 32 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
(cc)  the date or dates within the hunting season on which hunting under such 
authority is authorised; 
 
(dd) subject to the provisions of subparagraph (iiA), the species of huntable 
game, and the number of each such species, which may be hunted under 
such authority; and 
 
(ee)  the name of the farm or a description of the piece of land on which may 
be hunted under such authority, 
 
and shall be signed by the person granting such authority. 
 
[subparagraph (iii) amended by Act 6 of 1988] 
  
(bA)  The permit referred to in paragraph (a) shall authorise the person to whom it is 
granted, subject to the conditions, requirements and restrictions prescribed or 
imposed by or under this Ordinance, to hunt on the date or dates within the hunting 
season mentioned therein, the species of huntable game, and the number of each such 
species mentioned therein, on the  farm or farms mentioned therein or the  piece of 
land described therein. 
 
[subparagraph (iv) amended by Act 6 of 1988 to become paragraph (bA)] 
 
(c)  Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of paragraph (a) 
or (bA) or any condition, requirement or restriction of any permit granted in terms 
of this subsection, shall be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine not 
exceeding N$500 000 or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding five years, or 
to both such fine and such imprisonment. 
 
[paragraph (c) amended by Act 27 of 1986 and Act 6 of 1988,  
and substituted by Act 3 of 2017] 
 
(d)  If the person referred to in paragraph (c) has been previously convicted of an offence 
referred to in that paragraph, he or she is liable to a fine not exceeding N$1 000 000 
or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding 10 years, or to both such fine or such 
imprisonment. 
  
[paragraph (d) inserted by Act 3 of 2017] 
 
(2) Any person who hunts huntable game under any permit granted in terms of this 
section shall at all times have such permit in his possession while he is so hunting. 
 
[subsection (2) amended by Act 6 of 1988] 
 
(3) Any person who has hunted any huntable game under a permit granted in terms of 
this section, shall endorse- 
 
(a)  the species of huntable game, and the number of each such species, which he has 
hunted under such permit; 
 
(b)  the date on which he has so hunted it; and 
 
(c)  the name of the farm or a description of the land on which he has so hunted it,  
 
on such permit in ink or indelible pencil and shall sign it before he leaves the farm or piece of 
land on which he has hunted such huntable game. 
 

PAGE 33
Republic of Namibia 33 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
[subsection (3) amended by Act 6 of 1988] 
 
(4)  Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of subsection (2) 
or (3), shall be guilty of an offence. 
 
(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 47, any person who grants a written 
authority in terms of this section, may claim and recover the amount (if any) agreed upon with 
the person to whom such written authority was granted, fr om such person in respect of any 
huntable game hunted under such written authority. 
 
(6) Subject to the provisions of the proviso to subparagraph (aA) of subsection (1), no 
permit or permits shall be granted to any person in terms of that subsection which would result in 
such person being authorised to hunt in any given hunting season in total more than the one or the 
other of the following numbers of huntable game, namely: 
 
(a)  three head of big game; or 
 
(b)  two head of big game and four head of small game; or 
 
(c)  one head of big game and eight head of small game; or 
 
(d)  twelve head of small game. 
 
[subsection (6) inserted by Act 6 of 1988] 
 
Hunting of huntable game by owner or lessee of land 
 
31.  (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Ordinance contained, the 
owner or lessee of a farm which is enclosed with a game-proof fence or an adequate fence or of a 
piece of land which is not less than one thousand hectares in extent and enclosed with a game -
proof fence may hunt any huntable game on such farm or piece of land throughout the year 
without a permit referred to in section 30(1)(a). 
 
[subsection (1) amended by Act 6 of 1988] 
 
(2) The owner or lessee of a farm or piece of land referred to in subsection (1) may 
exercise the rights granted to him by the said subsection personally and also through his wife or 
one or  more of his children and his parents as well as through any employee permanently 
employed by him and resident on such farm or piece of land, provided such employee has his 
written permission: Provided that if such owner or lessee is by reason of physical disability unable 
to exercise such rights and neither his wife, nor his children, parents or employees as mentioned 
above are available to do so, the Minister may, on application by such owner or lessee, authorise 
any officer or other person whom it considers competent in writing to exercise such fights for and 
on behalf of such owner or lessee. 
 
[subsection (2) amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
(2A) (a) The owner or lessee of a farm or piece of land referred to in subsection (1), 
shall not later than the last day of November of every year provide the Director with 
a return stating the species of huntable game, and the number of each such species, 
which have been hunted by him personally, or for and on his behalf, on such farm or 
piece of land during the preceding period of twelve months in terms of the provisions 
of this section. 
 
(b) Any person who fails or neglects to comply with the provisions of paragraph (a) shall 
be guilty of an offence. 

PAGE 34
Republic of Namibia 34 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
 
[subsection (2A) inserted by Act 6 of 1988] 
 
(3) For the purposes of this section - 
 
(a) “owner” shall not include the town clerk or the secretary of a local authority; 
 
[paragraph (a) amended by Act 27 of 1986 and by Act 5 of 1996] 
 
(b) “lessee” shall not include the lessee of a farm or land, who is not the owner of the 
huntable game on such farm or land. 
 
Hunting of huntable game birds under owner’s authority 
 
32. (1) (a) Save as is otherwise provided in this Ordinanc e, no person other than 
the lawful holder of a written authority granted in accordance with the provisions of 
this section, shall hunt any huntable game birds. 
 
(b) The written authority referred to in paragraph (a) - 
 
(i) shall be granted only by the owner or lessee of a farm which is enclosed with 
a game-proof fence or an adequate fence or by the owner or lessee of a piece 
of land which is not l ess than one thousand hectares in extent and enclosed 
with a game-proof fence; 
 
(ii) shall be granted by such owner or lessee only in respect of the hunting of 
huntable game birds which is on such farm or piece of land and of which he 
is the owner in terms of this Ordinance: Provided that such owner shall not 
grant any such authority in respect of the hunting of any such huntable game 
birds of which he is the owner but has leased the right to hunt it; 
 
(iii) shall be in ink or indelible pencil and shall contain - 
 
(aa)  the name and full residential address of the person by whom such 
authority is granted; 
 
(bb)  the name and full residential ad dress of the person to whom such 
authority is granted; 
 
(cc)  the date or dates on which hunting under such authority is authorised; 
 
(dd)  the species of huntable game birds, and the number of each such species 
which may be hunted under such authority; and 
 
(ee)  the name of the farm or a description of the piece of land on which may 
be hunted under such authority, 
 
and shall be signed by the person granting such authority before it is handed 
by him to the person to whom it is granted. 
 
(iv) shall authorise the person to whom it is granted subject to the conditions, 
requirements and restrictions imposed by or under this Ordinance, to hunt on 
the date or dates mentioned therein (which date or dates shall not be outside 
the hunting season) the species of huntable game, and the number of each such 
species mentioned therein, on the farm or farms mentioned therein or the piece 
of land described therein. 

PAGE 35
Republic of Namibia 35 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
 
(2) Any person who hunts huntable game under any written authority granted in terms 
of this section sh all at all times have such written authority in his possession while he is so 
hunting: Provided that any person who is so hunting need not at all times have such written 
authority in his possession while he is so hunting if the person who has granted him such written 
authority accompanies him at all times while he is so hunting. 
 
(3) Any person who has hunted any huntable game birds under a written authority 
granted in terms of this section, shall endorse - 
 
(a) the species of huntable game birds, and the number of each such species, which he 
has hunted under such authority; 
 
(b) the date on which he has so hunted it; and 
 
(c) the name of the farm or a description of the land on which he has so hunted it, 
 
on such authority in ink or indelible pencil and shall sign it before he leaves the farm or the piece 
of land on which he has hunted such huntable game birds. 
 
(4)  Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of this section or 
any condition, requirement or restriction of any written authority granted in terms of this section, 
shall be guilty of an offence. 
 
(5)  Notwithstanding the provisions of section 47, any person who grants a written 
authority in terms of this section, may claim and recover the amount (if any) agreed upon with 
the person to whom such written authority was granted, from such person in respect of any 
huntable game birds hunted under such written authority. 
 
Hunting of huntable game birds by owner or lessee of land 
 
33. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Ordinance contained, the 
owner or lessee of any land may - 
 
(a) if such land is enclosed in such a manner that the boundaries thereof are clearly 
indicated, throughout the year hunt any huntable game birds on any part of such land; 
 
(b) if such land is not enclosed in such a manner that the boundaries thereof are clearly 
indicated, throughout the year on any cultivated lands and in any gardens on such 
land hunt any huntable game birds which destroy or damage crops or plants on such 
cultivated lands or in such gardens. 
 
(2) The owner or lessee of land referred to in subsection (1) may exercise the rights 
granted to him by the said subsection personally and also through his wife or one or more of his 
children or his parents as well as through any employee permanently employed by him and 
resident on such land provided such employee has his written permission: Provided that, if such 
owner or lessee is by reason of physical disability unable to exercise such rights and neither his 
wife, nor his children, parents or employees as mentioned above are available to do so, the 
Minister may on application by such owner or lessee authorise any officer or other person whom 
it considers competent in writing to exercise such rights for and on behalf of such owner or lessee. 
 
[subsection (2) amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
(3) For the purposes of this section - 
 

PAGE 36
Republic of Namibia 36 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
(a) “owner” shall not include the town clerk or the secretary of a local authority; 
 
[paragraph (a) amended by Act 27 of 1986 and by Act 5 of 1996] 
 
(b) “lessee” shall not include the lesse e of a farm or land, who is not the owner of the 
huntable game birds on such farm or land. 
 
Hunting of exotic game and other wild animals 
 
34. (1) Save as is otherwise provided in this Ordinance, no person shall hunt any 
exotic game, unless he is the lawfu l owner thereof, or has the written permission of the lawful 
owner thereof, or is the owner of the land on which such game trespasses. 
 
(2) Save as is otherwise provided in this Ordinance, no person shall hunt any wild animal 
which is not game as defined in section 1 on any land, unless he has the written permission of the 
owner or lessee of such land. 
 
(3) Any person who hunts any exotic game or any wild animal referred to in subsection 
(2) under a written permission granted in terms of subsection (1) or (2) , shall at all times have 
such written permission in his possession while he is so hunting: Provided that any person who is 
so hunting need not at all times have such written authority in his possession while he is so hunting 
if the person who has granted him such written authority accompanies him at all times while he 
is so hunting. 
 
(4) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of subsection (1) 
or (2) shall be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine not less than seven hundred 
and fifty rand and not exceeding one thousand five hundred rand or to imprisonment for a period 
of not less than twelve months and not exceeding three years or to both such fine and such 
imprisonment. 
 
Lease of hunting rights 
 
35. (1) The owner of a farm or land, who, in terms of this Ordinance, has the right to 
hunt huntable game, huntable game birds and exotic game on such farm or la nd may lease that 
right to any other person, in which case no other person than the lessee of such right shall have 
the right to hunt huntable game, huntable game birds or exotic game on such farm or land. 
 
(2) Any contract in terms of which the right to hunt huntable game, huntable game birds 
or exotic game is leased, shall - 
 
(a)  be a written contract; 
 
(b)  be entered into for a period of at least six months; and 
 
(c)  indicate explicitly whether such right refers to huntable game, huntable game birds, 
exotic game, or two or more thereof. 
 
[subsection (2) substituted by Ord. 16 of 1980] 
 
(3) Any lease in terms of subsection (1) of the right to hunt huntable game, huntable 
game birds or exotic game on a farm or land, shall lapse on the sale of the farm or land in respect 
of which it was leased. 
 
Hunting for the sake of trophies and possession and export of trophies 
 

PAGE 37
Republic of Namibia 37 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
36.  (1) (a)  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Ordinance contained, 
the Minister may allow any person from any country or territ ory under a permit 
granted by the Minister  to hunt the species of game, and the number (but not 
exceeding two) of each such species determined by the Minister  and mentioned in 
such permit, in Namibia for the sake of trophies. 
 
(b)  For the purposes of paragraph (a) any game that has been shot at by virtue of a permit 
granted under that paragraph, and that was wounded when thus being shot at, shall 
in all respects be regarded as having been hunted by virtue of such permit. 
 
[subsection (1) substituted by Ord. 16 of 1980 and amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
(2) Subject to the provisions of section 49 no person shall without the written permission 
of the Minister import any trophies into Namibia or export any trophies from Namibia. 
 
(2A) (a)  No person shall manufacture any articles either wholly or partially from a 
trophy or trophies for the purpose of sale unless he is licensed under this section as 
a manufacturer of articles from trophies. 
 
(b)  No person shall sell, offer for sale or display for the purpose of sale any trophies or 
adapted trophies unless he is licensed under this section as a seller of trophies and 
adapted trophies. 
 
(c)  The licences contemplated in paragraphs (a) and (b) shall be issued by the Minister 
in the prescribed form and against payment of the prescribed fees. 
 
(d)  The licences required under this subsection shall not be in lieu of but supplementary 
to any other permit, licence, registration, approval, permission or exemption required 
by law. 
 
[subsection (2A) inserted by Ord. 16 of 1980] 
 
(3) No person, other than the lawful holder of a permit granted by the Minister, shall be 
in possession of any elephant tusk or rhinoceros horn or any portion of an elephant tusk or 
rhinoceros horn: Provided that the provisions of this subsection shall not prohibit any person from 
being in possession of - 
 
(a) the tusk of any elephant or the horn of any rhinoceros which he has lawfully hunted 
or imported into Namibia in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance; 
 
(b) any portion of an elephant tusk or rhinoceros horn which has lost its original identity 
as a result of a bona fide manufacturing process. 
 
(4) Any elephant tusk or rhinoceros horn found in Namibia as 
res nullius shall be the 
property of the State and shall be disposed of as the Minister may determine from time to time. 
 
[subsection (4) amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
(5) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of this section or 
any condition, requirement or restriction of a permit, licence or permission granted in terms of 
this section, shall be guilty of an offence. 
 
[subsection (5) substituted by Ord. 16 of 1980] 
 
Hunting of game to protect grazing, cultivated lands and gardens 
 

PAGE 38
Republic of Namibia 38 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
37.  (1)  (a)  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Ordinance contained - 
 
(i) the owner or lessee of land or any employee in the permanent service of such 
owner or lessee, authorised thereto in writing by such owner or lessee, may 
hunt any game, exlcuding elephant, hippopotami and rhinoceros, destroying 
or damaging crops or plants on any cultivated land on such land: Provided that 
no game shall be hunted in accordance with the provisions of this 
subparagraph during the period from half an hour after sunset on any day to 
half an hour before sunrise on the following day, unless such cultivated land 
is not less than one hundred hectares in extent and enclosed with a game-proof 
fence prescribed in respect of kudu;  
 
[The word “excluding” is misspelt in the Official Gazette, as reproduced above.]  
 
(ii) any occupier of communal  land may hunt any game, excluding elephant, 
hipopotami and rhinoceros, destroying or damaging crops or plants on any 
cultivated land on such communal land which has been laid out and is being 
cultivated by such occupier, provided such cultivated land is e nclosed with a 
fence approved by the Director. 
 
[Paragraph (a) is amended by Act 27 of 1986. The word “hippopotami”  
is misspelt in the Official Gazette, as reproduced above.] 
 
(b) Any person who kills any game in terms of the provisions of this subsection shall 
report it in writing to the nearest nature conservator or at the nearest police office 
within ten days thereafter. 
 
(c) Any person who fails or neglects to comply with the provisions of paragraph (b) 
shall be guilty of an offence. 
 
(2) (a) Whenever the Minister is convinced that it is necessary to protect grazing on 
a farm or any other land it may grant a permit to the owner or lessee of such farm or 
land authorising him, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Ordinance 
contained but subject to the conditions, requirements and restrictions which is 
imposed when such permit is granted, within the period mentioned in such permit to 
hunt on such land the species of game, and the number there of, mentioned in such 
permit: Provided that - 
 
(i) if a company is the owner or lessee of such farm or land, such permit shall be 
issued to a director of such company or any other person nominated by such 
company; 
 
(ii) if a local authority is the owner or lessee of such farm or land, such permit 
shall be issued to a person nominated by the council or board of such local 
authority; 
 
(iii)  if the lessee of such farm or land applies for permission to hunt huntable game, 
huntable game birds or exotic game in terms of such permit, the Minister shall 
grant such permit only after consultation with the owner of such huntable 
game, huntable game birds or exotic game. 
 
(b) Any person to whom a permit referred to in paragraph (a) was granted, who 
contravenes or fails to comply with any condition, requirement or restriction of such 
permit, shall be guilty of an offence. 
 

PAGE 39
Republic of Namibia 39 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
(3) If at the trial of a person on a charge for the contravention of section 30 or section 
32, it appears from the evidence that the game, the subject of the ch arge, was lawfully killed in 
terms of the provisions of subsection (1), but that the accused failed or neglected to report the 
killing thereof in accordance with the said subsection (1) such person may be convicted of a 
contravention of the said subsection (1). 
 
(4)  Any game killed lawfully in terms of this section, shall be the lawful property of the 
person who so killed it. 
 
Hunting at night 
 
38. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 37 and Chapter IV, no person shall without 
the permission of the Minister hunt any game or other wild animal, other than a problem animal - 
 
(a) with the aid of artificial light; 
 
(b) during the period from half an hour after sunset on any day to half an hour before 
sunrise on the following day. 
 
(2)  Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of this section or 
any condition, requirement or restriction of any permission granted in terms of this section, shall 
be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding N$500 000 or to 
imprisonment for a period not exceeding five years, or to both such fine and such imprisonment. 
 
[subsection (2) substituted by Act 3 of 2017] 
 
(3)  If the person referred to in subsection (2) has been previously convicted of an offence 
referred to in that subsecti on, he or she is liable to a fine not exceeding N$1  000 000 or to 
imprisonment for a period not exceeding 10 years, or to both such fine or such imprisonment. 
 
[subsection (3) inserted by Act 3 of 2017] 
 
Powers of land owners in regard to persons found hunting and dogs 
 
39. (1) Whenever - 
 
(a) the owner or lessee of land; or 
 
(b) the lessee of the right to hunt huntable game, huntable game birds and exotic game 
on a farm or land; or 
 
(c) any other person authorised thereto in writing by any owner or lessee referred to in 
paragraph (a) or (b), 
 
comes across a person who is engaged in hunting game on such farm or land he may request the 
person who is so engaged in hunting immediately to produce his permit, authority or permission 
to hunt such game on such farm  or land, and if the person who is so engaged in hunting refuses 
or fails immediately to produce such permit, authority or permission, he may be ordered by the 
first-mentioned person to furnish his true name and address and immediately to leave the farm or 
land, and any person who refuses or fails to obey such order, may be arrested by the person who 
gave the order. 
 
(2) Whenever - 
 
(a) the occupier of land owned by the State; or 

PAGE 40
Republic of Namibia 40 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
 
(b) any other person authorised thereto in writing by the Minister, 
 
comes across any person who is engaged in hunting game or any other wild animal (other than a 
problem animal) on such land, he may request the person who is so engaged in hunting such game 
or wild animal immediately to produce his permit or permission to hunt such game or wild animals 
on such land, and if the person so engaged in hunting such game or wild animal refuses or fails 
immediately to produce such permit or permission, he may be ordered by the first -mentioned 
person to furnish his true name and address and immediately to leave the land concerned, and any 
person who refuses or fails to obey such order may be arrested by the person who gave the order. 
 
[subsection (2) amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
(3) The occupier of land owned by the State and the owner or lessee of any other land 
may immediately destroy any dog chasing game or any other wild animal on such land (except a 
dog chasing such game or wild animal in accordance with the provisions of Chapter IV) as well 
as any dog which is found on such farm or la nd and which is not under the proper control of an 
adult, or cause any such dog to be destroyed. 
 
[subsection (3) amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
(4) Any person who - 
 
(a) contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of this section; 
 
(b) refuses or fails  immediately to produce any permit, authority or permission when 
requested in terms of subsection (1) or (2) to do so; 
 
(c) refuses or fails to furnish his true name and address, or furnishes a name or address 
which is not his true name or address when ordered in terms of subsection (1) or (2) 
to furnish his true name and address; 
 
(d)  refuses or fails immediately to leave the farm or land concerned when ordered in 
terms of subsection (1) or (2) to do so, 
 
shall be guilty of an offence. 
 
Catching, capturing and killing of game and wild animals 
 
40. (1) (a) Subject to the provisions of this Ordinance, no person shall without a 
permit granted by the Minister intentionally - 
 
(i) kill game or any other wild animal by any means other than by shooting with 
a firearm; 
 
(ii) capture game or any other wild animal by means of a snare, pitfall, trap, 
springtrap, net, birdlime, drug or any other device or means whatsoever or by 
any method whatsoever; 
 
(iii)  keep game or any other wild animal. 
 
(b) The provisions of this subsection shall by no means prohibit the owner or lessee of 
land from killing or capturing wild animals not being game as defined in section 1, 
on such land for any purpose whatsoever. 
 

PAGE 41
Republic of Namibia 41 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
(c) The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to the ki lling and capturing of 
reptiles and rodents not being game as defined in section 1: Provided that no person 
other than a licensed game dealer shall capture any such reptiles or rodents for 
commercial or scientific purposes without the written permission of the Minister. 
 
(d) The Minister may, in his or her discretion grant exemption from any or all the 
provisions of this subsection to the owner or lessee of a farm which is enclosed with 
a game-proof fence or of a piece of land which is not less than one thousand hectares 
in extent and which is enclosed with a game-proof fence, or to a licensed game dealer 
or to any member or the members of any particular group residing on the communal 
land of the group concerned. 
 
[paragraph (d) amended by Act 27 of 1986 and by Act 5 of 1996] 
 
(e)  (i)  The Minister may, in its discretion, exclude any species of exotic game from 
the provisions of this subsection relating to the keeping of game. 
 
(ii)  The name of any species of exotic game which is so excluded from the 
provisions of this subsection, shall be made known by notice in the Official 
Gazette. 
 
(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in subsection (1) and section 41, 
but otherwise subject to all the provisions of this Ordinance and any other law in force in Namibia 
relating to the care for and the keeping, transport, sale and export of game, the owner or lessee of 
a farm or any piece of land not being less than one thousand hectares in extent may with the aid 
of helpers under his personal supervision, for any purpose whatsoever capture and keep game on 
such farm or piece of land, provided such farm is enclosed with a game-proof fence or an adequate 
fence or such piece of land is enclosed with a game -proof fence and the Director has previously 
in writing approved the method whereby and the equipment with which such owner or lessee 
intends to capture such game: Provided that - 
 
(i)  the Minister may at any time in its discretion direct that any such owner or lessee 
shall only capture such game under the supervision of an officer of the Directorate; 
 
(ii)  such owner or lessee may engage any person approved by the Minister  (whether in 
general or for that specific case) to capture such game in such manner. 
 
[subsection (2) amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
(3) (a)  The Minister may in its discretion and in respect of such game, wild animals, 
birds and reptiles as it may determine, grant exemption from any or all of the 
provisions of this section to a person who is the holder of a licence authorising him 
to sell pets. 
 
(b) An application for the exemption referred to in paragraph (a) shall be made in a form 
approved by the Secretary and shall be submitted to the Director. 
 
(4) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of this section or 
any condition, requirement or restriction of any permit, approval, permission or exemption 
granted or any instruction given in terms of this section, shall be guilty of an offence. 
 
(5) For the purposes of the provisions of this section excluding the provisions of 
subsection (1)(b), “lessee” shall not include the lessee of a farm or land, who is not the owner of 
the huntable game, huntable game birds and exotic game on such farm or land. 
 

PAGE 42
Republic of Namibia 42 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
Driving or luring of game from another person’s land or removal or damaging of a fence to 
allow game to pass is an offence 
 
40A. Any person who, whether personally or through any other person - 
 
(a)  without the consent of the owner or lessee of a farm or piece of land, drives or in any 
other manner forces or lures any game or other wild animals to trek from such farm 
or piece of land to any other farm or piece of land; 
 
(b)  removes, damages, cuts, flattens or raises any game -proof fence or adequate  fence 
or constructs a game-trap in such a fence or allows a game-trap to exist therein, with 
intent to drive or lure any game or other wild animals from any farm or piece of land, 
without the consent of the owner or lessee of such farm or piece of land, to any other 
farm or piece of land or to allow game or other wild animals to pass or escape from 
such first-mentioned farm or piece of land to such other farm or piece of land, 
 
shall be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding R4 000 or  to 
imprisonment for a period not exceeding four years or to both such fine and such imprisonment.  
 
 [section 40A inserted by Act 27 of 1986 and amended by Act 6 of 1988] 
 
Capturing, transport and keeping of game for commercial purposes 
 
41. (1) Subject to the provisions of sections 40(1)(b) and 40(2) no person shall 
capture, transport or keep game or an y other wild animal for commercial purposes unless he is 
licensed as a game dealer: Provided that the provisions of this subsection shall by no means 
prohibit any person who has captured or is keeping game or any other wild animal for commercial 
purposes in terms of the provisions of section 40(1)(b) or 40(2), from transporting such game for 
commercial purposes. 
 
(2) Application for a game dealer’s licence shall be made in the form set out in Schedule 
7. 
 
(3) A game dealer’s licence shall be granted by the Minister, and shall be issued in the 
form set out in Schedule 8. 
 
(4) A game dealer’s licence - 
 
(a) shall be valid for the period from the first day of April in any year or, if it is issued 
after that day, from the day of issue, up to and including the thirty-first day of March 
following that day: Provided that a game dealer ’s licence which was issued for the 
calender year 1975 in terms of an ordinance repe aled by section 90, shall remain 
valid up to and including the thirty-first day of March, 1976; 
 
[The word “calendar” is misspelt in the Official Gazette, as reproduced above.]  
 
(b) may be renewed annually; and 
 
(c) shall not be transferable. 
 
(5) An amount of one hundred rand shall be payable at the issue of every new game 
dealer’s licence and at any renewal of a game dealer’s licence. 
 

PAGE 43
Republic of Namibia 43 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
(6) Every licensed game dealer shall keep a register in the form and in the manner 
prescribed by regulation, of all game and other wild animals which he captures, buys, sells, 
breeds, exchanges or barters and disposes of, and which dies.. 
 
(7) (a) The Minister may in its discretion grant exemption from any or all of the 
provisions of this section to any person who is the holder of a licence authorising 
him to sell pets, in regard to such game and other wild animals as it may determine 
and which shall be mentioned in such exemption. 
 
(b) An application for the exemption referred to in paragraph (a) shall be made in a form 
approved by the Secretary and shall be submitted to the Director. 
 
(8) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of this  section, 
or any provision, restriction or condition of a licence or an exemption granted i n terms of this 
section, shall be guilty of an offence. 
 
Restrictions in regard to fire-arms and capturing apparatus 
 
42. (1) No person shall use a revolver, pistol or automatic fire -arm when hunting 
game or use a fire-arm of which the bullet has an energy at the muzzle of the barrel which is lower 
than the following when hunting the species of game indicated thereunder: 
 
(a) 5400 joules:  
Buffalo. 
 
(b) 2700 joules:  
Eland 
Kudu  
Oryx 
Wildebeest  
Hartebeest 
All species of exotic game. 
 
(c) 1350 joules:  
Springbok  
Duiker: 
 
Provided that the Minister may for the purposes of this subsection by regul ation differentiate 
between the calibre of different fire-arms in respect of different species of game. 
 
(2) No person shall when hunting the species of game mentioned in subsection (1)(b) or 
(c) use cartridges with bullets commonly known as “solid”. 
 
(3) No person shall convey any fire -arm otherwise than in a securely fastened case or 
cover along any public road in Namibia unless such person is the owner or lessee of the land upon 
which such road is situated or has the right to hunt game or any other wild animal on such land. 
 
(4) Subject to the provisions of Chapter IV no person shall - 
 
(a) bring or cause to be brought, or be in possession of, any snare, trap, springtrap, net, 
birdlime or any other device or means whatsoever, intended or suitable for the 
capture of any game or other wild animal or, subject to the provisions of subsection 
(3), a fire-arm; 
 
(b) make any pitfall, 

PAGE 44
Republic of Namibia 44 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
 
onto, or on, any land on which any game or other wild animals may presumably be found, unless 
such person is the owner or lessee of such land or unless such owner or lessee has previously 
given permission in writing to the person concerned to bring the article concerned onto such land 
or to make a pitfall on such land, and the said owner or lessee may destroy or render harmless any 
such article as aforementioned, which may have been brought onto such land without his 
permission: Provided that the provisions of paragraph (a) shall not apply to any stocks held by a 
licensed game dealer. 
 
(5) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of this section, 
shall be guilty of an offence. 
 
Use of vehicles and aircraft when hunting and capturing game 
 
43. (1) Any person who, during a hunting expedition shoots at game out of or from a 
moving motor vehicle or an aircraft, or who, for any purpose whatsoever, including that of filming 
or photography, wilfully drives game by means of a motor vehicle or an aircraft, shall be guilty 
of an offence: Provided that the Minister may grant exemption from the provisions of this section 
prohibiting him from using motor vehicles and aircraft so to capture, to drive away or to shoot at 
game, to - 
 
(a) the owner or lessee of a farm or land - 
 
(i) desiring to drive away or shoot at game in accordance with the provisions of 
section 37(1); 
 
(ii)  desiring to capture game on such farm or land in accordance with the 
provisions of section 40(1) or (2); 
 
(b) a licensed game dealer desiring to capture game in accordance with the prov isions 
of this Ordinance. 
 
(2) Any exemption referred to in subsection (1) may be granted in general or to a specific 
person or in respect of a specific occasion. 
 
Eggs of game birds 
 
44. (1) No person other than the lawful holder of a pe rmit granted by the Minister  
shall at any time remove, disturb, destroy, sell, hawk or purchase the eggs of huntable game birds 
or those protected birds mentioned in Schedule 4(ii): Provided that if an owner or lessee of land 
may hunt such birds without a permit, he may remove the eggs of such birds without a permit for 
his own use. 
 
(2) A permit issued in terms of this section shall state the kind of egg and the n umber 
thereof which may be removed, disturbed, destroyed, sold, hawked or purchased thereunder. 
 
(3) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of this section, 
or any condition, requirement or restriction of a permit issued in terms of this section, shall be 
guilty of an offence. 
 
Game for scientific purposes 
 
45. (1) Whenever the Minister is satisfied that any species of game or wild animal is 
required by a  public museum, zoological garden or scientific institution, or that any speci es of 
game or wild animal is required for scientific purposes or for domestication or acclimatisation, it 

PAGE 45
Republic of Namibia 45 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
may grant a permit to any person authorising him to hunt, kill, capture or keep such game or wild 
animal at the time, place or locality mentioned in s uch permit, notwithstanding anything to the 
contrary contained in this Ordinance, but subject to the conditions, requirements and restrictions 
mentioned in such permit. 
 
(2)  On granting any permit referred to in subsection (1) the Minister may also determine 
the method by means of which such game or wild animal or any product derived from such game 
or wild animal, may or shall be disposed of. 
 
(3) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any condition, requirement or 
restriction of any permit granted in terms of this section, shall be guilty of an offence and liable 
on conviction - 
 
(a) in the case of a permit concerning specially protected or protected game, to a fine 
not less than two hundred and fifty  rand and not  exceeding one thousand five 
hundred rand or to imprisonment for a period of not less than three months and not 
exceeding three years or to both such fine and such imprisonment; 
 
(b) in the case of a permit concerning huntable game or any other game or wild animal 
except huntable game b irds, to a fine not less than one hundred rand and not 
exceeding five hundred rand or to imprisonment for a period of not less than one 
month and not exceeding six months or to both such fine and such imprisonment; 
 
(c) in the case of a permit concerning h untable game birds, to the penalties prescribed 
by section 87. 
 
Donation of game and game meat 
 
46.  (1) (a) No person shall donate any game or  game meat to any other person: 
Provided that - 
 
(i) the owner or lessee of a farm or a piece of land or any other pers on who has 
lawfully captured or who is lawfully keeping game in accordance with the 
provisions of this Ordinance may at any time donate any game which he has 
so captured or which he is so keeping in accordance with the provisions of this 
Ordinance to any other person who is the owner or lessee of a farm or land in 
Namibia or to whom a permit or  licence has been granted in terms of this 
Ordinance authorising him to keep such game or to export it from Namibia; 
 
(ii) the owner or lessee of a farm which is enclosed with a game-proof fence, or a 
piece of land which is not less than one thousand hectares in extent and which 
is enclosed with a game-proof fence may at any time donate the game meat of 
any game which he has lawfully hunted in accordance with the provisi ons of 
this Ordinance on such farm or piece of land, to a single person above the age 
of eighteen years or to the head of a family (irrespective of the size of the 
family) or to any church denomination, association, institution, organisation, 
society or body approved by the Minister; 
 
(iii) the owner or lessee of any other farm or land may, during the hunting season 
only donate the game meat of any game which he has lawfully hunted in 
accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance on such farm or land, to a 
single person above the age of eighteen years or to the head of a family 
(irrespective of the size of the family), or to a church denomination, 
association, institution, organisation, society or body approved by the 
Minister; 

PAGE 46
Republic of Namibia 46 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
 
(iv) any person who has la wfully acquired game meat from someone else in 
accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance may, in the hunting season 
only, donate such game meat to a single person above the age of eighteen years 
or to the head of a family (irrespective of the size of the family), or to a church 
denomination, association, institution, organisation, society or body approved 
by the Minister. 
 
(b) Not more game meat than the meat of - 
 
(i) one eland, oryx, kudu or buffalo; or 
 
(ii)  four springbok, warthogs or bushpigs; or 
 
(iii)  twelve huntable game birds 
 
in any period of thirty days, shall be donated in terms of the provisions of paragraph 
(iii) or (iv) of the proviso to paragraph (a), by any person to any other person to 
whom he may so donate it. 
 
(c) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of paragraph (a) 
or (b), shall be guilty of an offence. 
 
(2) (a) No person shall receive any game or game meat as a gift from any person 
other than a person who may donate it to him in terms of this Ordinance. 
 
(b) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of paragraph (a), 
shall be guilty of an offence. 
 
(3) (a) Any person who donates any game or game meat to any other person or to a 
church denomination, association, institution, organisation, society or body, shall at 
the time of delivering or handing over such game or game meat, hand to the person 
to whom it is so delivered or handed over, a document in which - 
 
(i) the name and the residential address of the donor; 
 
(ii)  the date on which and the place at which such game or game meat is delivered 
or handed over; 
 
(iii)  a description of the game or game meat so donated; 
 
(iv) the name of the person, church denomination, association, institution, 
organisation, society or body to whom or to which such game or game meat 
is so donated; 
 
(v) the name and the residential address of the person to whom such game or game 
meat is being delivered or handed over; and 
 
(vi) the signature of the donor, 
 
is indicated fully in ink or indelible pencil. 
 
(b) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of paragraph (a), 
shall be guilty of an offence. 
 

PAGE 47
Republic of Namibia 47 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
(4) Any person who is in possession of game or game meat as a result of a donation 
without being in possession of a document r eferred to in subsection (3), shall be guilty of an 
offence. 
 
(5) The provisions of subsections (1) up to and including (4) shall not apply in respect 
of - 
 
(i) a gift of game or game meat made to his parents or children by the owner or lessee 
of a farm or land; 
 
(ii)  to a gift of game meat, other than the meat of huntable game birds, of less than ten 
kilograms. 
 
(6)  Any person who furnishes false information in respect of any provision of this 
section, or who makes a false entry in a document referred to in subsection (3), shall be guilty of 
an offence. 
 
(7)  For the purposes of this section “lessee” shall not include the lessee of a farm or land, 
who is not the owner of the huntable game, huntable game birds and exotic game on such farm or 
land. 
 
Sale of game, game meat and the skins of game 
 
47. (1) No person shall sell - 
 
(a) any game or game meat; or 
 
(b) the skins of any game which is obviously under the age of one year: 
 
Provided that - 
 
(i) the owner or lessee of a farm which is enclosed with a game-proof fence or a 
piece of land which is at least one thousand hectares in extent and which is 
enclosed with a game -proof fence, may sell any game or game meat or any 
such skins originating from that farm or that piece of land; 
 
(ii)  the owner or lessee o f a farm which is enclosed with an adequate fence may 
sell any game or game meat or any such skins originating from that farm with 
the written permission of the Minister , which permission may be granted 
subject to the conditions determined by the Minister, including in the  case 
where such game is to be hunted for commercial purposes, a condition 
indicating the person or persons by whom such game shall be hunted; 
 
(iii) any licensed butcher may, with the written permission of the Minister, sell any 
game meat which he has acquired from the owner or lessee of a farm or land 
in terms of the provisions of paragraph (i) or (ii) of this proviso;  
 
[paragraph (iii) amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
(iv)  any licensed game dealer may sell any game which he has in his possession in 
accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance; 
 
(v)  any church denomination, association, institution, organisation, society or 
body approved by the Minister  may, with the written permission of the 
Minister, sell any game o r game meat which such church denomination, 

PAGE 48
Republic of Namibia 48 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
association, institution, organisation, society or body has obtained in terms of 
the provisions of this Ordinance, at a public function. 
 
(2) No person shall purchase - 
 
(a) game or game meat; or 
 
(b) the skins of game obviously under the age of one year, 
 
knowing it to be game or game meat or such skins: Provided that nothing in this subsection 
contained shall prohibit any person from purchasing - 
 
(i) from the owner or lessee of a farm or a piece of land any game or game meat 
or skins; or 
 
(ii) from a licensed butcher any game meat; or 
 
(iii)  from a licensed game dealer any game; or 
 
(iv)  from any church denomination, association, institution, organisation, society 
or body any game or game meat  
 
which such owner or lessee of a farm or piece of land, licensed butcher, licensed game dealer, 
church denomination, association, institution, organisation, society or body may sell to him in 
terms of this Ordinance. 
 
(3) (a) Any person who sells any game, game meat or the skin of game obviously 
under the age of one year to any other person or to a church denomination, 
association, institution, organisation, society or body shall, at the time of delivering 
or handing over such game, game meat or skin, hand to the person to whom it is so 
delivered or handed over, a document in which - 
 
(i) the name and the residential address of the seller; 
 
(ii) the date on which and the place at which such game, game meat or skin is 
delivered or handed over; 
 
(iii) a description of the game, game meat or skin so sold; 
 
(iv) the name and the residential address of the purchaser; 
 
(v) the name and the residential address of the person to whom such game, game 
meat or skin is being delivered or handed over; and 
 
(vi) the signature of the seller 
 
is indicated fully in ink or indelible pencil. 
 
[There is no punctuation mark at the end of subparagraph (vi) in the Official Gazette.] 
 
(b) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of paragraph (a), 
shall be guilty of an offence. 
 

PAGE 49
Republic of Namibia 49 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
(c) Any person who, as a result of the purchase thereof, is in possession of game, game 
meat or the skin of game obviously under the age of one year without being in 
possession of a document referred to in paragraph (a), shall be guilty of an offence. 
 
(4) No person shall, in any newspaper or otherwise, advertise the sale of - 
 
(a) any game or game meat; or 
 
(b) the skins of game obviously under the age of one year: 
 
Provided that nothing in this subsection contained shall prohibit - 
 
(i)  the owner or lessee of a farm or a piece of land from advertising the sale of 
any game, game meat or such skins; 
 
(ii) any licensed butcher from advertising the sale of any game meat; 
 
(iii) any licensed game dealer from advertising the sale of any game; 
 
(iv)  any church denomination, association, institution, organisation, society or 
body from advertising the sale of any game or game meat 
 
which such owner or lessee of a farm or piece of land, licensed butcher, licensed game dealer, 
church denomination, association, institution, organisation, society or body may sell in terms of 
this Ordinance. 
 
(5) For the purposes of this section - 
 
(a) “lessee” shall not include the lessee of a farm or a piece of land, who is not, in terms 
of this Ordinance, the owner of the game on such farm or piece of land; 
 
(b) “game” shall not include exotic game. 
 
(6)  Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of subsection (1), 
(2) or (4) or any condition, requirement or restriction of any permission granted thereunder shall 
be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine not less than one hundred rand and not 
exceeding one thousand five hundred rand or to imprisonment for a period of not less than one 
month and not exceeding three years or to both such fine and such imprisonment. 
 
(7)  Any person who contravenes, or fails to comply with, the provisions of subsection 
(3) or who furnishes false information in respect of any provision of this section, or who makes a 
false entry in a document referred to in subsection (3), shall be guilty of an offence. 
 
Transport of game and game meat 
 
48. (1) No person shall transport game or game meat unless he - 
 
(a) is the holder of a permit, written authority or written permission granted and issued 
in terms of this Ordinance, authorising him to hunt, capture, or keep such game, or 
to import such game into Namibia  or to export such game from Namibia, and has 
such permit, written authority or written permission on his person at the time of such 
transport; 
 
(b) is the holder of a game dealer’s licence issued in terms of this Ordinance; 
 

PAGE 50
Republic of Namibia 50 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
(c) is the holder of a document handed to him in accordance with the provisions of 
section 46 or 47 and has such document on his person at the time of such transport; 
 
(d) has been commanded in writing by the owner or lessee of a farm or land who may 
lawfully donate game or game meat in terms of this Ordinance, to transport game or 
game meat which is so donated to another person for such other person and deliver 
it to him and has such command as well as the document referred to in paragraph (c) 
on his person at the time of such transport. 
 
(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall not apply to - 
 
(a) the owner or lessee of a farm or land, who transports any game or the game meat of 
any game lawfully hunted or captured on such farm or land in accordance with the 
provisions of this Ordinance; 
 
(b) the parent or child of any owner or lessee of a farm or land who transport the game 
meat of any game which such parent or child has lawfully hunted on such farm or 
land in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance; 
 
(c) the employee of any owner or lessee of a farm or land who transports the game meat 
of any game which such employee has lawfully hunted on such farm or land in 
accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance, provided such employee shall have 
the written permission referred to in section 31(2) on his person at the time of such 
transport if he transports it on any place other than the farm or land of his employer; 
 
[paragraph (c) amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
(d)  any person who transports game meat other than the meat of huntable game birds, of 
less than ten kilograms donated to him. 
 
(3) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of this section, 
shall be guilty of an offence. 
 
Import and export of game and wild animals and their skins 
 
49.  (1) No person shall import into Namibia  or export from Namibia any game or 
wild animal or the raw skin or raw meat of any game or wild animal except under a permit granted 
by the Minister: Provided that the provisions of this subsection shall not apply in respect of - 
 
(a)  the raw skin of any game or wild animal imp orted into Namibia from the Republic 
of South Africa; 
 
(b) the raw skin on any game carcass which is imported into Namibia or exported from 
Namibia under a permit granted in terms of this subsection or in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph (c); 
 
(c)  the raw meat of any game or wild animal imported into Namibia  by any person for 
his own consumption or which has in accordance with the provisions of this 
Ordinance been lawfully hunted or purchased by or donated to the person so 
exporting it for his own consumption. 
 
[subsection (1) amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
(2) (a) The Minister may place a prohibition on the import into Namibia or the export 
from Namibia of the prepared or tanned skin, any product manufactured therefrom, 

PAGE 51
Republic of Namibia 51 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
of any species of game or wild animal, or live game or animal, or impose the 
conditions which he or she may determine in respect of the import into Namibia  or 
the export from Namibia of any such skin, product or live game or animal. 
 
[Subsection (2) is substituted by Act 3 of 2017. The amendment markings are incomplete.  
The word “or” appears to have been inadvertently removed from the phrase  
“… of the prepared or tanned skin, or any product manufactured therefrom…”. ] 
 
(b) Any prohibition or condition imposed under paragraph (a) shall be made known by 
notice in the Official Gazette. 
 
(3)  
 
[subsection (3) amended by Act 27 of 1986 and deleted by Act 17 of 1988] 
 
(4) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of this section, 
or any condition, requirement or restriction of any permit granted thereunder or a prohibition or 
condition imposed under this section, shall be guilty of an offence. 
 
Prohibition of the removal of game found dead 
 
50.  (1)  Subject to the provisions of subsection (2) no person other than the owner or 
lessee of land on which any game is found dead shall remove such game or any part thereof from 
the place where it is found dead, unless it was killed in accordance with the provisions of this 
Ordinance by the person removing it. 
 
(2) Any game found dead or any part thereof may - 
 
(a) if it is found - 
 
(i) on a proclaimed road, 
 
(ii) within the boundaries of the road reserve of a proclaimed road and constitutes 
a danger to traffic on such proclaimed road, 
 
be removed by any person from the place where it is so found to the boundary of the 
said road reserve which is nearest to the place where it is so found. 
 
(b) if it obstructs any route other than a proclaimed road, be removed by any person as 
far as is necessary to open the route which is so obstructed. 
 
(3) Any person who, in accordance with the provisions of subsection (1) or (2), removes 
any specially protected game or protected game which is found dead, from the place where it is 
found dead, shall report such removal to the Director in writing within ten days thereafter. 
 
(4) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of this section, 
shall be guilty of an offence. 
 
Possession of skins of specially protected and protected game  
 
50A. No person shall be in possession of any raw skin of specially protected or protected 
game unless he is the lawful holder of - 
 
(a)  a permit granted by the Minister under section 26, 27 or 36 authorising him to hunt 
such specially protected or protected game; or 
 

PAGE 52
Republic of Namibia 52 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
(b)  a permit granted by the Minister authorising him to be in possession of such skin. 
 
[section 50A inserted by Ord. 4 of 1977] 
 
Inability to give satisfactory account of possession 
 
51.  Any person found in possession of any game or wild animal or any game meat or the 
egg of any game or a wild animal in respect of which a reasonable suspicion exists that it has been 
hunted or obtained or is possessed contrary to the provisions of this Ordinance, and who is unable 
to prove that he has hunted or acquired or possesses such game or wild animal or game meat or 
egg lawfully in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance, shall be guilty of an offence. 
 
CHAPTER IV 
 
PROBLEM ANIMALS 
 
Application of Chapter 
 
52. No provision of this Chapter shall be applicable within a game park: Provided that 
the Minister may in its discretion declare that any one or more of the provisions of this Chapter 
shall be applicable within any game park, or any part of a game park, designated by it. 
 
Declaration as problem animal 
 
53. (1) The Minister may declare any wild animal a problem animal throughout 
Namibia or within such part or parts of Namibia as it may in its discretion determine. 
 
(2) Whenever the Minister declares any wild animal a problem animal in terms of the 
provisions of subsection (1), the name of such wild animal and a definition of the part or parts of 
Namibia within which such wild animal is declared a problem animal shall be made known by 
notice in the Official Gazette. 
 
Hunting of problem animals 
 
54. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Ordinance contained but 
subject to the provisions of this Chapter, the owner or lessee of land may - 
 
(a) at any time hunt any problem animal found on such land; 
 
(b) engage or request any other person at any time to hunt, or assist in the hunting of, 
any problem animal found on such land  
 
as long as such problem animal is on such land. 
 
[There is no punctuation mark at the end of paragraph (b) in the Official Gazette.] 
 
(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Ordinance contained, any nature 
conservator, or any other person authorised or instructed thereto by the Minister, may at any time 
hunt any problem animal and for that purpose such nature conservator or other person may enter 
upon any land without the consent of the owner or lessee thereof: Provided that whenever possible 
notice of such person’s presence on such land shall be given to the occupier thereof or any other 
person apparently in charge thereof. 
 
Compulsory control of black-backed jackal 
 

PAGE 53
Republic of Namibia 53 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
55.  (1) (a) Whenever black-backed jackal are found in such large numbers on any 
land situated in  the small stock area that, in the opinion of the Minister , they 
constitute a nuisance or may possibly cause damage on any adjoining land which is 
also situated in the small stock area, the Minister may, in writing, order the owner or 
lessee of the land on which the said black-backed jackal are so found, to exterminate 
the said black -backed jackal on such land, or to reduce their numbers to the 
satisfaction of the Minister within a period specified by the Minister. 
 
(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a) “small stock area” means the whole of Namibia  
excluding that part of Namibia  which is situated to the north of the twenty -third 
degree of latitude and to the east of the sixteenth degree of longitude. 
 
(2) An order referred to in subsection (1) shall be dee med to have been served on the 
owner or lessee of any land - 
 
(a) if delivered to him; 
 
(b) if left in the care of an adult person who apparently inhabits or occupies his last -
known dwellingplace or such land, or who is employed there; 
 
(c) if sent to his last-known postal address by registered post. 
 
(3) If any owner or lessee of land on whom an order referred to in subsection (1) has 
been served, fails to exterminate the black -backed jackal occurring on such land, or to reduce 
their numbers to the satisfaction of the Minister, within the period stipulated by the Minister , or 
any extension of such period which the Minister may in its discretion allow, the Minister  may 
cause the said black -backed jackal to be hunted by any nature conservator or any other per son 
authorised or instructed thereto by the Minister , and for that purpose such nature conservator or 
other person may enter upon such land without the consent of the owner or lessee thereof: 
Provided that whenever possible, notice of such person’s presence on such land shall be given to 
the occupier thereof or any other person apparently in charge thereof. 
 
(4) The owner or lessee of any land on which black-backed jackal are killed in terms of 
the provisions of subsection (3) shall - 
 
(a)  if the land on which the black-backed jackal are so killed is situated within an area 
in respect of which contributions towards the cost of jackal-proof fencing have been 
declared obligatory in terms of the Fencing Proclamation Amendment Ordinance 
1957 (Ordinance 6 of 1957), pay an amount of two hundred rand; or 
 
(b)  if the land on which the black- backed jackal are so killed is not situated within an 
area in respect of which contributions towards the cost of jackal-proof fencing have 
been declared obligatory in terms of t he Fencing Proclamation Amendment 
Ordinance 1957 (Ordinance 6 of 1957), pay an amount of fifty rand, 
 
to the State in respect of every black-backed jackal killed on such land in terms of the provisions 
of subsection (3).  
 
[Subsection (4) is amended by Act 27 of 1986. The Fencing Proclamation Amendment  
Ordinance 6 of 1957 supplements the Fencing Proclamation 57 of 1921  
and is appended thereto in the annotated statutes.] 
 
(5)  An amount payable to the State in terms of subsection (4) shall be deemed to be a 
debt due to the State and may be recovered from the person by whom it has to be paid in terms of 
the said subsection in any competent court. 

PAGE 54
Republic of Namibia 54 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
 
[subsection (5) amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
Provision of aids 
 
56. The Minister may on the conditions and at the prices determined by it provide any 
person, authorised by or in terms of this Chapter to hunt problem animals, with any apparatus and 
aids (including poison) which can be applied for or in connection with the hunting of pr oblem 
animals. 
 
Training of hunters 
 
57. (1) The Minister may train nature conservators and other persons or cause them 
to be trained to hunt problem animals and to use any apparatus or aid which can be applied for or 
in connection with the hunting of problem animals and may for that purpose present any courses, 
or cause any courses to be presented, on such conditions (including the payment of fees) as it may 
determine. 
 
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 59 the Minister may supply any apparatus 
and aids needed at the presentation of any course referred to in subsection (1). 
 
(3) The Director shall issue every person who has completed a course in the use, placing 
and setting of the coyote getter, jackal cannon or gun trap and who is, to his satisf action, 
competent to use, to place and to set a coyote getter, jackal cannon or gun trap, with a certificate 
of competency authorising him to use, to place and to set a coyote getter, jackal cannon or gun 
trap subject to the conditions mentioned in such certificate: Provided that the Director may issue 
any person who has not completed a course in the use, placing and setting of the jackal cannon or 
gun trap with a certificate of competency authorising him to use, to place and to set a jackal 
cannon or gun trap subject to the conditions mentioned in such certificate if such person proves 
to the satisfaction of the Director that he is competent to use, to place and to set a jackal cannon 
or gun trap. 
 
Trade in coyote getters 
 
58. (1) No person shall, without t he written permission of the Minister , import into 
Namibia, manufacture, sell or offer or possess for sale any coyote getter or cartridges therefor. 
 
(2) Any person to whom permission has been granted in terms of subsection (1) to 
import into Namibia , manufacture, sell or offer or possess for sale coyote getters or cartridges 
therefor, shall keep the register prescribed by regulation. 
 
(3) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of this section or 
any condition, requirement or restriction of any permission referred to in subsection (1), shall be 
guilty of an offence and liable  in subsection (1), shall be guilty of an offence and liable on 
conviction to a fine not exceeding five hundred rand or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding 
six months or to both such fine and such imprisonment. 
 
[The phrase “in subsection (1), shall be guilty of an offence and liable”  
is repeated in the Official Gazette, as reproduced above.] 
 
Prohibition of the supply of coyote getters to incompetent persons 
 
59. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 57, no person shall sell, donate or in any 
other manner whatsoever supply a coyote getter or cartridges therefor to any other person unless 
such other person - 

PAGE 55
Republic of Namibia 55 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
 
(a) is the holder of a certificate of competency; and 
 
(b) produces such certificate of competency to him at the time of such sale, donation or 
supply. 
 
(2) Any person who sells, donates or supplies a coyote getter or cartridges therefor to 
any other person contrary to the provisions of subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and 
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding five hundred rand or to imprisonment for a period not 
exceeding six months or to both such fine and such imprisonment. 
 
Prohibition of the obtaining of coyote getters by incompetent persons 
 
60. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 58, no person shall - 
 
(a)  purchase, receive or in any other manner whatsoever acquire or obtain a coyote getter 
or cartridges therefor; 
 
(b) have a coyote getter or cartridges therefor in his possession  
 
unless he is the holder of a certificate of competency. 
 
[There is no punctuation mark at the end of paragraph (b) in the Official Gazette.] 
 
(2) Any person who purchases, receives, acquires, obtains or possesses a coyote getter 
or cartridges therefor contrary to the provisions of subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and 
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding five hundred rand or to imprisonment for a period not 
exceeding six months or to both such fine and such imprisonment. 
 
Use of poison and coyote getters 
 
61. (1) Subject to any provisions to the contrary in any law contained, no person shall 
set or lay any poison other than poison approved by the Minister on any land. 
 
(2) No person shall - 
 
(a) use, set or place a coyote getter, jackal cannon or gun trap - 
 
(i) except under the authority of and in accordance with the conditions of a 
certificate of competency issued to him; and 
 
(ii)  unless warning sign boards of a design and with the wording approved by the 
Director have previously been erected at all entrances to the land on which 
such coyote getter, jackal cannon or gun trap is set or placed or is to be set or 
placed; 
 
(b) set or place a coyote getter, jackal cannon or gun trap - 
 
(i) between any fence erected nearer than two hundred metres to the centre line 
of a proclaimed road, and such road; 
 
(ii)  at any place nearer than two hundred metres to the centre line of a proclaimed 
road, unless there is a fence between the place where the said coyote getter, 
jackal cannon or gun trap has been set or placed, and such road; 
 

PAGE 56
Republic of Namibia 56 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
(c) use any poison which has not been approved by the Minister in a coyote getter. 
 
(3) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of subsection (1) 
or (2) shall be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding five hundred 
rand or to imprisonment for a period of not exceeding six months or to both such fine and such 
imprisonment. 
 
[The word “of” in the phrase “for a period of not exceeding” is superfluous.] 
 
Research in regard to problem animals 
 
62. (1) The Minister may instruct any nature conservator or other officer and 
authorise any other person to do research in connection with the control of problem animals, 
subject to the conditions determined by it 
 
(2) Any person instructed or authorised in terms of subsection (1) to do research in 
connection with the control of problem animals may, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in 
this Ordinance contained, but subject to the provisions of this Chapter and the conditions imposed 
by the Minister, hunt any problem animals or capture or kill any problem animals by any chemical, 
mechanical and biological means. 
 
(3) In the exercise of the powers or the performance of the functions or duties gra nted 
to or imposed on him by or in terms of this section, any person may, subject to  the conditions 
determined by the Minister, enter upon any land without the consent of the owner or lessee 
thereof: Provided that whenever possible notice of such person’s presence on such land shall be 
given to the occupier thereof or any other person apparently in charge thereof. 
 
Obstruction of persons in the performance of their duties 
 
63. Any person who - 
 
(a) hinders, impedes or obstructs a nature conservator or the owner or lessee of land or 
any other officer or person in the exercise of the powers or the performance of the 
functions or duties granted to or imposed on him by or in terms of this Chapter; 
 
(b) injures or kills a dog, horse or any other animal lawfully used in the course of or in 
connection with the hunting of problem animals in terms of this Chapter; 
 
(c) damages, destroys or disfigures any apparatus, device or other property used in the 
course of or in connection with the hunting of problem animals in t erms of this 
Chapter; 
 
(d) is the owner or lessee of land and fails to render any reasonable assistance requested 
from him by a nature conservator or other officer acting in the exercise of any power 
or the performance of any function or duty in accordance  with or in terms of the 
provisions of this Chapter, 
 
shall be guilty of an offence. 
 
Limitations in relation to damages 
 
64. If any person sustains damages as a result of the exercise or performance by a nature 
conservator or any other person of any power, function or duty granted to or imposed on such 
nature conservator or other person by or in terms of this Chapter, no person shall be compelled to 
compensate the damages concerned unless the person claiming the damages proves that the 

PAGE 57
Republic of Namibia 57 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
damages concern ed was wantonly or negligently caused by such nature conservator or other 
person. 
 
CHAPTER V 
 
FISH IN INLAND WATERS 
 
***  
 
65.  
 
[section 65 deleted by Act 1 of 2003] 
 
***  
 
66.   
 
[section 66 deleted by Act 1 of 2003] 
 
***  
 
67.  
 
[section 67 substituted by Act 27 of 1986, amended by Act 5 of 1996 and deleted by Act 1 of 2003] 
 
***  
 
68.   
 
 
[section 68 amended by Act 27 of 1986 and by Act 5 of 1996 and deleted by Act 1 of 2003] 
 
***  
 
69.  
 
[section 69 deleted by Act 1 of 2003] 
 
***  
 
70.  
 
[section 70 deleted by Act 1 of 2003] 
 
***  
 
71.  
 
[section 71 deleted by Act 1 of 2003] 
 
CHAPTER VI 
 
INDIGENOUS PLANTS 
 
Powers of Minister in regard to indigenous plants 
 

PAGE 58
Republic of Namibia 58 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
72. (1) (a) The Minister may from time to time amend Schedule 9 by deleting 
therefrom or adding thereto the name of any species of indigenous plant. 
 
(b) Any such amendment of Schedule 9 shall be made known by notice in the Official 
Gazette. 
 
(2) (a)  The Minister may from time to time exempt any species of indigenous plant 
in any area determined by it, from any or all of the provisions of this Ordinance. 
 
(b) Whenever the Minister  has in terms of paragraph (a) exempted any species of 
indigenous plant from any prov ision or provisions of this Ordinance, the name of 
that species of indigenous plant, the provision or provisions of this Ordinance from 
which it has been so exempted, and a definition of the area in which it has been so 
exempted shall be made known by notice in the Official Gazette. 
 
Picking and transport of protected plants 
 
73.  (1)  No person other than the lawful holder of a permit granted by the Minister  
shall at any time pick or transport any protected plant: Provided that - 
 
(a)  the owner of a nursery licensed under section 75 may without such permit pick and 
transport any protected plant cultivated on the premises of such nursery and cause 
any such protected plant to be picked and transported; 
 
(b)  the owner or lessee of land may on that land without such permit pick the flower of 
a protected plant for use as a decoration in his home; 
 
(c)  the owner or lessee of lan d may without such permit pick a protected plant on that 
portion of such land - 
 
(i)  which he needs for cultivated lands, the erection of a building, the construction 
of a road or airfield or any other development which necessitates the removal 
of vegetation; or 
 
(ii)  on which such protected plant has been specially cultivated. 
 
[subsection (1) amended by Ord. 4 of 1977] 
 
(2) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of subsection (1) 
or any condition, requirement or restriction of a permit granted thereunder shall be guilty of an 
offence and liable on conviction to a fine not less than one hundred rand and not exceeding seven 
hundred and fifty rand or to i mprisonment for a period of not less than one month and not 
exceeding twelve months or to both such fine and such imprisonment. 
 
Sale, donation, export and removal of protected plants 
 
74.  (1) No person other tha n the lawful holder of a permit granted by the Minister  
shall sell, donate or export or remove from Namibia, any protected plant: Provided that the owner 
of a nursery licensed under section 75 may without such permit sell or donate and export and 
remove from Namibia any protected plant cultivated on the premises of such nursery. 
 
[subsection (1) substituted by Ord. 4 of 1977] 
 

PAGE 59
Republic of Namibia 59 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
(2) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of subsection (1) 
or any condition, requirement or restriction of a permit granted thereunder shall be guilty of an 
offence. 
 
Nursery licences 
 
75. 
(1)  Any person desiring to obtain a nursery licence shall apply therefor in writing 
to the Minister. 
 
(2)  A nursery licence - 
 
(a)  shall be valid for the period from the first day of April in any year or, if it is issued 
after that day, from the day of issue, up to and including the thirty-first day of March 
following that day; 
 
(b)  may be renewed annually by applying to the Director in writing for such renewal not 
less than six months before the expiry of the period of validity of the licence 
concerned; and 
 
(c)  shall not be transferable. 
 
(3)  An amount of fifty rand shall be payable at the issue and every renewal of a nursery 
licence. 
 
[section 75 substituted by Ord. 4 of 1977] 
 
Receipt of protected plants 
 
76. (1) Subject to any provisions to the contrary in this Ordinance contained, no 
person shall purchase a protected plant, or in any manner whatsoever come into possession 
thereof, or offer to purchase it or to come into possession thereof, except from a person who may 
lawfully sell it in terms of this Ordinance. 
 
(2) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with the provisions of subsection 
(1), shall be guilty of an offence. 
 
Picking and transport of indigenous plants 
 
77. (1) Subject to any provisions to the contrary in this Ordinance contained, no 
person shall pick any indigenous plant on land of which he is not the owner or lessee, unless he 
has the written permission thereto from the owner or lessee of the land. 
 
(2) Any person who picks any indigenous plant under a written permission granted in 
terms of this section, shall at all times have such written permission in his possession while he is 
engaged in picking or transporting such indigenous plant. 
 
(3) The provisions of this section shall not apply to the parent, spouse or child of or 
white employee permanently employed by the owner or lessee of land on which indigenous plants 
are being picked. 
 
[The phrase “the parent, spouse or child of or white employee” is grammatically problematic.  
The word “or” may have been intended to be “a”, or there may be some words missing.] 
 
(4) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of this section, 
shall be guilty of an offence. 
 

PAGE 60
Republic of Namibia 60 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
CHAPTER VII 
 
GENERAL 
 
General powers of Minister 
 
78. The Minister may - 
 
(a) provide for the acquisition or lease of movable or immovable property, servitudes or 
other rights thereon, for - 
 
(i) the establishment, erection, extension or improvement of game parks, fisheries 
and nurseries; 
 
(ii)  the preservation of nature or any part of nature; 
 
(b) take the measures which it may deem necessary or desirable in connection with the 
propagation and preservation of wild animals, exotic game, fish and plants; 
 
(c) take t he measures which it may deem necessary or desirable for the destruction, 
decrease or elimination, whether in general or in any particular area, of any problem 
animal or any other species of wild animal, exotic game, fish or plant, which may be 
harmful or detrimental to the existence of any other species of wild animal, fish or 
indigenous plant or which, in its opinion, may present a threat from the point of view 
of farming or stock diseases; 
 
(d)  take the measures which it may deem necessary or desirable for the import or transfer 
from one area to another of wild animals, exotic game, fish and plants and the  
acclimatisation of such wild animals, exotic game, fish and plants in the area to 
which they have so been imported or transferred; 
 
(e)  take the measures which it may deem necessary or desirable for the capture of wild 
animals or exotic game, the catching of fish or the collection of plants; 
 
(f)  take the measures which it may deem necessary or desirable for the purchase and 
sale of wild animals, exotic game, fish and plants, whether alive or dead; 
 
(g) take any measures whatsoever which it may deem necessary or desirable for research 
in connection with wild animals, exotic game, fisheries and plants; 
 
(h) take the measures which it may deem necessary or desirable for the making of 
surveys and the conducting of investigations in connection with wild animals, exotic 
game, fish and plants; 
 
(i)  take the measures which it may deem necessary or desirable for the collection and 
publication of statistics and information in connection with nature conservation; 
 
(j)  take the measures which it may deem necessary or desirable for the control of aquatic 
vegetation in waters; 
 
(k) render any assistance, whether financial or otherwise, to any body, society or person 
which or who in its opinion promotes the preservation of wild animals, fish, 
indigenous plants or nature in general; 
 

PAGE 61
Republic of Namibia 61 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
(kA) take the measures which it may deem necessary or desirable for the payment of 
monetary rewards to persons furnishing information in connection with 
contraventions of the provisions of this Ordinance. 
 
[paragraph (kA) inserted by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
(l) take the measures which it may deem necessary or desirable for the better carrying 
out of the provisions or purposes of this Ordinance in general without limitation of 
the generality thereof by matters mentioned specifically in this section. 
 
Appointment of nature conservators and honorary nature conservators 
 
79.  (1) The Minister may, subject to the provisions of the Government Service Act, 
1980 (Act 2 of 1980), appoint the persons whom it may deem necessary and suitable, as nature 
conservators for the whole of Namibia or for a part of Namibia or for a magisterial district. 
 
[Subsection (1) is amended by Act 27 of 1986. The Government Service  
Act 2 of 1980 has been replaced by the Public Service Act 13 of 1995.] 
 
(2) (a) The Minister may appoint one or more persons whom it may deem suitable as 
honorary nature conservators for the whole of Namibia or for a part of Namibia or 
for a magisterial district for a period not exceeding three years at a time: Provided 
that the Minister may in its discretion appoint any person as honorary nature 
conservator for life. 
 
(b) The Minister may at any time withdraw the appointment of a person as an honorary 
nature conservator and appoint any other person whom it may deem suitable as 
honorary nature conservator in the place of such person. 
 
(3) Any person who is a member of the board shall be  an honorary nature conservator 
for as long as he holds such office. 
 
(4)   
 
[subsection (4) deleted by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
Certificate of appointment 
 
80. Every nature conservator, except a member of the security forces, and every 
honorary nature conservator shall be furnished by the Director with a certificate of appointment 
and a badge and shall when exercising any power or performing any function or duty in terms of 
this Ordinance, produce such certificate for inspection if requested to do so. 
 
[section 80 amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
Powers, functions and duties of nature conservators and honorary nature conservators 
 
81. (1) A nature conservator may exercise and perform all those powers, duties and 
functions granted to or imposed on him by or in terms of t his Ordinance and may, in addition 
thereto - 
 
(a) at any time conduct any investigation which he deems necessary in order to 
determine whether the provisions of this Ordinance are being complied with; 
 
(b) at any time without warrant and without permission  enter upon any land, premises, 
waters, building, tent, camping or other place, vehicle, vessel, boat, raft, aircraft or 

PAGE 62
Republic of Namibia 62 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
other means of conveyance and there conduct the investigation and inspection 
(including an investigation and inspection of any containe r or other thing found 
thereon or therein) which he deems necessary in order to determine whether the 
provisions of this Ordinance are being complied with; 
 
(c) at any time without warrant and without permission enter upon any land, premises, 
waters, building, tent, camping or other place, vehicle, vessel, boat, raft, aircraft or 
other means of conveyance or container of whatever description, and there conduct 
a search if he reasonably suspects that there is anything thereon or therein which - 
 
(i) is being used or has been used for the purpose of, or in or in connection with; 
 
(ii) in his opinion forms or has formed an element in; 
 
(iii)  in his opinion will, or may furnish proof of  
 
the commission of an offence in terms of this Ordinance; 
 
[There is no punctuation mark at the end of subparagraph (iii) in the Official Gazette.] 
 
(d) at any time in the course of any investigation or inspection which he conducts or 
intends conducting in terms of this Ordinance, without warrant and without 
permission demand that any vehicle, vessel, boat, raft, aircraft or other means of 
conveyance be brought to a standstill and remain stationary until he has completed 
his investigation or inspection and has given permission that it may depart or 
continue its journey; 
 
(e) at any time without warrant seize anything - 
 
(i) in respect of which he reasonably suspects that it is being used or has been 
used for the purpose of or in or in connection with; 
 
(ii) in his opinion forms or has formed an element in; 
 
(iii) in his opinion will, or may furnish proof of  
 
the commission of an offence in terms of this Ordinance; 
 
[There is no punctuation mark at the end of subparagraph (iii) in the Official Gazette.] 
 
(f)  at any time question any person who in his opinion may possibly be able t o furnish 
any information which he requires in connection with the enforcement of any 
provision of this Ordinance, and for that purpose, without warrant and without 
permission demand that any vehicle, vessel, boat, raft, aircraft or other means of 
conveyance be brought to a standstill and remain stationary until he has completed 
his questioning and has given permission that it may depart or continue its journey; 
 
(g) at any time order any person who in his opinion may possibly have information 
which is material in connection with a contravention of this Ordinance, to furnish 
him with such information as such person may be able to give; 
 
(h) demand the name and address of any person - 
 
(i) who has committed an offence in terms of this Ordinance, or who is  
reasonably suspected of having committed such an offence; 

PAGE 63
Republic of Namibia 63 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
 
(ii) who is reasonably considered to be able to give evidence in connection with 
an offence committed in terms of this Ordinance, or is reasonably suspected 
of having been so committed; 
 
(i)  remove any snare, trap, springtrap, pitfall, holding pen, trap-cage, net, birdlime, fish-
trap, set line, fishing tackle, gun trap, jackal cannon or coyote getter or cartridges 
therefor, poison or any other like article, means or contrivance which is being used  
or which is suspected of being used unlawful ly to hunt or catch game or any wild 
animal or fish, from the place where it is found, or if such removal is impossible or 
dangerous or difficult, destroy or render it harmless; 
 
(j)  at any time demand from any person who performs or has performed an act, or in 
respect of whom it is reasonably suspected that he is performing or has performed 
an act, for which a licence, permit, exemption, written authority or permission or any 
other document is necessary in terms of this Ordinance, that he shall produce, such 
licence, permit, exemption, written authority or permission or other document; 
 
(k)  at any time demand from any person who is required in terms of this Ordinance to 
keep a register, to produce such register, and inspect such register; 
 
(l) without warrant seize and confiscate any game, wild animal, fish or plant which is 
found in possession of, or held in captivity by any person if - 
 
(i) such person fails, at the demand of such na ture conservator, to produce a 
permit, licence, exemption, written authority or permission or any other 
document authorising such possession or captivity: 
 
(ii)  such game, wild animal, fish or plant is in possession of or is being kept in 
captivity by suc h person contrary to any condition specified in a permit, 
licence, exemption, written authority or permission or any other document 
produced by such person authorising such possession or keeping; 
 
(m) having been instructed thereto by the Minister , and with or without the permission 
of the owner or lessee of the land on which it is found, capture and transport to a 
game park any game or other wild animal which, owing to its scarcity, runs the risk 
of being exterminated; 
 
(n) having been instructed thereto by the Minister, and with the permission of the owner 
or lessee of the land concerned, capture or destroy on such land any game or wild 
animal - 
 
(i) destroying or damaging crops or plants on cultivated lands, or cultivated trees 
on such land; 
 
(ii) found in such numbers on such land that, in the opinion of the Minister, they 
will damage or may probably damage the grazing on such land; 
 
(iii) which is or may possibly be a danger to human beings; 
 
(o) whenever it is necessary for the proper exercise of  his powers, or for the proper 
performance of his functions or duties, and whether for scientific or any other 
purposes - 
 
(i)  hunt, capture or keep any game or wild animal; 

PAGE 64
Republic of Namibia 64 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
 
(ii)  catch any fish irrespective of the species or size thereof; 
 
(iii)  pick any indigenous or protected plant,  
 
on any land or in any inland waters owned by the State  and, with the permission of 
the owner or lessee thereof, also on land not owned by the State : Provided that, for 
the purposes of this paragraph, “ lessee” shall not include the lessee of land who is 
not the owner of the huntable game, huntable game birds and exotic game on such 
land; 
 
[paragraph (o) amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
(p) if it is necessary for the exercise of his powers or the performance of his functions 
or duties, or if he deems it necessary therefor carry a fire- arm on his person even if 
he is on land which is not owned by the State; 
 
[paragraph (p) amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
(q) for the better exercise of any power or  the better performance of any function or 
duty, take with him an interpreter or an assistant who shall be an officer, and such 
interpreter or assistant shall, while acting under the lawful command and supervision 
of such nature conservator, have the same powers, duties and functions as  such 
nature conservator. 
 
(2) In so far as offences in terms of this Ordinance are concerned, every nature 
conservator shall have all the powers of a peace officer to arrest any person without warrant which 
peace officers have under section 22 of the Criminal Procedure Ordinance, 1963 (Ordinance 34 
of 1963). 
 
[The Criminal Procedure Ordinance 34 of 1963, with the exception of sections  
300(3) and 370, has been replaced by the Criminal Procedure Act 51 of 1977.] 
 
(3) When a nature conservator who has un der subsection (2) been authorised to arrest 
any person who has contravened any provision of Chapter II or who, on reasonable grounds is 
suspected of the contravention thereof, attempts to arrest such person and that person flees or 
offers resistance and cannot be arrested and prevented from escaping in any other manner than by 
killing the person so fleeing or offering resistance, such homicide shall legally be held to be 
justifiable homicide. 
 
(4) An honorary nature conservator shall have the power granted to a nature conservator 
by subsection 1(a) and shall in addition thereto - 
 
[introductory phrase of subsection (4) amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
(a) at the request of the Director, in the manner and at the times determined by the 
Director, or at any time of  his own accord, report to the Director in relation to 
malconditions, malpractices, abuses and other matters in connection with the 
protection of game, other wild animals, fish and indigenous and protected plants in 
the area for which he has been appointed; 
 
[paragraph (a) amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
(b) as soon as possible after it has come to his notice report, or cause to be reported , to 
the nearest nature conservator any offence in terms of this Ordinance or any other 

PAGE 65
Republic of Namibia 65 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
law relating to the conservation of game, wild animals or nature in force in the area 
for which he has been appointed; 
 
(c) at least once per year, at the time and place and in the manner determined by the 
Director, report to the Director in connection with the game, wild animals, fish and 
indigenous and protected plants in his area and in such report provide information in 
relation to - 
 
(i) any noticeable decrease or increase in the numbers of any particular species 
of game or wild animal, and the possible or probable reasons for such decrease 
or increase; 
 
(ii) prominent movements of game or wild animals such as migration from one 
farm or area to another and the possible or probable reasons therefor; 
 
(iii) epidemics or diseases occurring amongst game, wild animals, fish or 
indigenous or protected plants; 
 
(iv) particular difficulties caused by game or wild animals; 
 
(v) comments on the hunting, capturing and keeping of game, the catching of fish 
and the picking of indigenous and protected plants in his area or any part 
thereof; 
 
(vi) proposals in connection with the hunting regulations for the next hunting 
season; 
 
(vii) proposals in connection with the amendment of this Ordinance or any 
regulations made and in force thereunder or any other law containing 
provisions relating to nature or game conservation and which is in force in his 
area; 
 
(viii) comments on the control and development of game parks; 
 
(ix) comments on any matter relating to nature conservation. 
 
[paragraph (c) amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
(5) Any person who assaults or resists or hinders or impedes a nature conservator, an 
honorary nature conservator or the assistant or interpreter of a nature conservator in the exercise 
of his powers or the performance of his functions or duties, or wilfully interferes with such nature 
conservator, honorary nature conservator, assistant or interpreter, shall be guilty of an offence and 
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding R4 000 or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding 
four years, or to both such fine and such imprisonment. 
 
[subsection (5) amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
(6) A person who - 
 
(a) falsely pretends to be a nature conservator or the assistant or interpreter of a nature 
conservator or an honorary nature conservator; 
 
(b) refuses or fails to comply forthwith with any order, direction, requirement or request 
given or put to him by a nature conservator, an honorary nature conservator or the 
assistant or interpreter of a nature conservator in the exercise of any power or the 

PAGE 66
Republic of Namibia 66 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975 
performance of any function or duty in terms of this Ordinance, or who furnishes 
untrue or misleading information when complying with such order, direction, 
requirement or request, 
sh
all be guilty of an offence. 
D
isposal of article seized in terms of this Ordinance 
81A
. (1)  A nature conservator who seizes anything (hereinafter referred to as an article) 
under this Ordinance - 
(a) m
ay, if the article is a perishable, with due regard to the interests of the person s
co
ncerned, dispose of the article in such manner as the circumstances may require;
or
(b) sh
all, if the article is not disposed of in terms of the provisions of paragraph (a), give
it a distinctive identification mark and deliver it to a policeman, who shall retain it
in police custody or make such other arrangements with regard to the custody thereof
as the circumstances may require, whereupon the provisions of sections 50D, 50E
,
50F
 and 50G of the  Criminal Procedure Ordinance, 1963 (Ordinance 34 of 1963) ,
s
hall apply mutatis mutandis with reference to any such article and such article shall
for the purposes of the said sections be deemed to be an article referred to in section
50C(c) of the said Ordinance: Provided that any such article which may be forfeited
in terms of any of the said sections, shall be forfeited to the State.
[Subsection (1) is amended by Act 27 of 1986. The Criminal Procedure Ordinance
34 of 1963, with the exception of sections 300(3) and 370, has been 
replaced by the Criminal Procedure Act 51 of 1977.] 
(2) A
ny article so forfeited to the State may be disposed of by the Minister and the
proceeds obtained therefrom shall be paid into the Central Revenue Fund. 
[subsection (2) amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
[section 81A inserted by Ord. 4 of 1977] 
E
xemptions 
82. T
he Minister may, if it is of the opinion that it is or will be in the interests of nature
conservation, exempt any person from any or all of the provisions of this Ordinance. 
C
onditions in relation to permits, licences, registrations, approvals, permissions and 
exemptions 
83. (1) No person shall be entitled to claim that he has a right to obtain any permit,
licence, registration, approval, permission or exemption which is required or may be issued or 
granted in terms of this Ordinance and the Minister shall not be obliged to furnish any reasons for 
the refusal by it to grant or issue any such permit, licence, registration, approval, permission or 
exemption. 
[The indicated portion of section 83(1) is declared unconstitutional and “pro non scripto”  
(“as though it had not been written") in N/a’an Ku Sê Foundation v Minister of Environment, 
Forestry and Tourism & Others 2023 (1) NR 213 (HC).] 
(
2) Every permit, licence, registration, approval, permission or exemption granted b y
t
he Minister in terms of thi s Ordinance shall be issued against payment of the fees, if any, 

PAGE 67
Republic of Namibia 67 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
prescribed for such permit, licence, registration, approval, permission, or exemption by this 
Ordinance or by regulation: Provided that the Minister may, subject to the provisions of this 
Ordinance, decrease such fees or grant exemption from the payment of such fees if he or she is of 
the opinion that good and sufficient reasons therefor exists. 
 
[subsection (2) amended by Act 27 of 1986 and substituted by Act 5 of 1996] 
 
(3)  Every permit, licence, registration, approval, permission or exemption granted by 
the Minister in terms of this Ordinance shall be subject to the conditions, requirements and 
restrictions prescribed by regulation, whether in general or for the particular permit, licence, 
registration, approval, permission, or exemption and, in addition thereto, to the conditions, 
requirements and restrictions which the Minister may in every particular case deem necessary or 
expedient to impose. 
 
[subsection (3) amended by Act 27 of 1986 and substituted by Act 5 of 1996] 
 
(4) Every permit, licence, registration, approval, permission or exemption granted by 
the Minister in terms of this Ordinance shall, subject to the provisions of this Ordinance, be valid 
for the period determined by the Minister. 
 
(5)  (a) The Minister may, subject to the provisions of paragraph (e), at any time, 
without furnishing any reasons therefore - 
 
(i) withdraw any permit, licence, registration, approval, permission or exemption 
granted by it in terms of this Ordinance; 
 
(ii) amend, change or withdraw the conditions, requirements and restrictions to 
which a permit, licence , registration, approval, permission or exemption so 
granted by it is subject; 
 
(iii) add any further conditions, requirements and restrictions to the conditions, 
requirements and restrictions to which such permit, licence, registration, 
approval, permission or exemption is subject. 
 
[paragraph (a) amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
(b) Whenever the Minister exercises any of the powers granted to it by paragraph (a), it 
shall inform the holder of the permit, licence, registration, approval, permission or 
exemption concerned thereof and such holder shall forthwith return such permit, 
licence, registration, approval, permission or exemption to the Director. 
 
(c) Any person who refuses or fails so to return such permit, licence, registration, 
approval, permission or exemption shall be guilty of an offence. 
 
(d) If any person suffers damages as a result of the exercise  by the Minister of any of 
the powers granted to it by this subsection, the State shall not be obliged to pay any 
compensation to such person for any damages which he suffered as a result of the 
exercise of the power concerned. 
 
[paragraph (d) amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
(e)  
 
[paragraph (e) inserted by Act 27 of 1986 and deleted by Act 5 of 1996] 
 

PAGE 68
Republic of Namibia 68 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
(6)  (a)  Any permit, licence, registration, approval, permission or exemption issued or 
granted contrary to the provisions of this Ordinance shall be invalid, and the holder 
of any such permit, licence, registration, approval, permission or exemption or any 
other person who is in possession thereof shall, at the request of the Minister , 
forthwith return such permit, licence, registration, approval, permission or 
exemption to the Director. 
 
(b) Any person who contravenes or refuses or fails to co mply with the provisions of 
paragraph (a) shall be guilty of an offence. 
 
(7)  
 
[subsection (7) inserted by Act 27 of 1986 and deleted by Act 5 of 1996] 
 
Regulations 
 
84. (1) The Minister may make regulations in relation to - 
 
(a) any matter which is required or permitted to be prescribed in terms of this Ordinance; 
 
(b) (i) the conditions on which permission to enter a game park or a nature reserve 
or to reside therein may  be granted and the periods or times during which a 
game park or nature reserve or any part thereof shall be open to the public; 
 
(ii) the conditions on which any person entering, passing through or sojourning 
within a game park or nature reserve, may obtain the services or attendance of 
officers and the fees to be paid for such services or attendance; 
 
(iii) the fees, if any, to be paid for permission to enter or reside in a game park or 
a nature reserve, the admission of motor vehicles, aircraft, vessels or other 
vehicles to and the taking of photographs in a game park or a nature reserve 
or for any other matter connected with the use and enjoyment of a game park 
or a nature reserve; 
 
(iv) the protection and preservation of a game park or a nature reserve and of the 
animals, fish, birds, vegetation or any other object or property therein; 
 
(v) the regulation of traffic and the carriage of passengers in a game park or a 
nature reserve, the places at which persons may enter and the routes by which 
they may pass through a game park or a nature reserve; 
 
(vi) generally for the efficient control and management of a game park or a nature 
reserve; 
 
(c) the administration and control of private game parks and private nature reserves, the 
protection of wild animal life and wild vegetation therein and the requirements to be 
complied with before any area may be declared a private game park or a private 
nature reserve or before the declaration of any area as a private game park or a private 
nature reserve shall be withdrawn; 
 
(d) the circumstances under which any permit, licence, registration, approval, 
permission or exemption shall be granted by the Minister in terms of this Ordinance 
and the form in which any such permit, licence, registration, approval, permission or 
exemption shall be issued; 
 

PAGE 69
Republic of Namibia 69 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
(e) the keeping of registers relating to the obtaining, processing, sale or export of the 
skins of game or wild animals by licensed game dealers, dealers dealing in skins of 
game or wild animals, tanneries and other persons or bodies interested in the 
obtaining, processing, sale or export of the skins of game or wild animals; 
 
(f) the removal, disturbance or destruction of the eggs of any species of bird which is a 
wild animal or of any product or offal derived or obtained from any species of bird 
which is a wild animal and the levying of any royalties and monies in connection 
therewith; 
 
[paragraph (f) substituted by Ord. 4 of 1977] 
 
(g) the keeping in captivity, transport or removal from one place to another of any game 
or wild animal; 
 
(h) the requirements to be complied with by any person when he has wounded any game 
or wild animal; 
 
(i)  the immobilisation of game or wild animals; 
 
(j)  research in connection with problem animals and other animals which may possibly 
be declared problem animals; 
 
(k) the registers to be kept by any person who imports or sells or offers for sale or is, for 
the purpose of selling it, in possession of coyote getters and cartridges therefor; 
 
(l) the regulation, control and prohibition of the throwing or laying of poison; 
 
(m) the payment of a reward for the destruction or extermination of problem animals, 
whether in general or in any specific area, the conditions on which such reward shall 
be paid and the proof to be submitted in connection with the payment of such reward; 
 
(n)  
 
[paragraph (n) deleted by Act 1 of 2003] 
 
(o)  
 
[paragraph (o) deleted by Act 1 of 2003] 
 
(p)  
 
[paragraph (p) deleted by Act 1 of 2003] 
 
(q) the sale of cultivated indigenous plants; 
 
(r) the control and regulation of the possession of any protected plant; 
 
(s) the regulation of the import, cultivation and control of any plant, whether it is an 
indigenous plant or not, which, in the opinion of the Minister, may be detrimental to, 
or create less favourable conditions for, any wild animal, fish or indigenous plant; 
 
(t) the recognition and registration of succulent associations, including the requirements 
which sha ll be satisfied by a succulent association in order to be registered, the 
restrictions and conditions to which such registration shall be subject, the privileges 

PAGE 70
Republic of Namibia 70 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
to which such registration shall entitle a succulent association and the cancellation 
of such registration; 
 
(u) the recognition and registration of cage-bird associations, including the requirements 
which shall be satisfied by a cage- bird association in order to be registered, the 
restrictions and conditions to which such registration shall be subject, the privileges 
to which such registration shall entitle a cage- bird association and the cancellation 
of such registration; 
 
(v)  the recognition and registration of any other association which has the protection or 
conservation of nature or any aspect thereof, or of any game, wild animals, fisheries 
or plants as its object, including the requirements which shall be satisfied by such 
association in order to be registered, the restrictions and conditions to which such 
registration shall be  subject, the privileges to which such registration shall entitle 
such association and the cancellation of such registration; 
 
(w) (i)  control over the hunting of game for the sake of trophies; 
 
(ii)  control over advertising in relating to the hunting of game for the sake of 
trophies; 
 
(iii)  the periods during which and the places where game may or may not be hunted 
for the sake of trophies; 
 
(iv) the registration of hunting farms, including the requirements which shall be 
satisfied by a farm in order to be registered  as a hunting farm, the conditions 
and restrictions to which such registration shall be subject, the fees to be paid 
at such registration and the withdrawal of any such registration; 
 
(v) control over hunting farms and the running thereof as well as control over the 
services rendered and facilities provided by or on hunting farms; 
 
(vi) the registration of professional hunters, including the requirements which 
shall be satisfied by any person in order to be registered as a professional 
hunter, the conditions and restrictions to which such registration shall be 
subject, the fees to be paid at such registration and the withdrawal of any such 
registration; 
 
(viA) the registration of master hunting guides, including the requirements which 
shall be satisfied by any person in order to be registered as a master hunting 
guide, the conditions and restrictions to which such registration shall be 
subject, the fees to be paid at such registration and the withdrawal of any such 
registration; 
 
[subparagraph (viA) inserted by Act 6 of 1988] 
 
(vii) the registration of hunting guides including the requirements which shall be 
satisfied by any person in order to be registered as a hunting  guide, the 
conditions and restrictions to which such registration shall be subject, the fees 
to be paid at such registration and the withdrawal of any such registration; 
 
(viii) the training of persons as professional hunters, master hunting guides and 
hunting guides; 
 
[subparagraph (viii) amended by Act 6 of 1988] 

PAGE 71
Republic of Namibia 71 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
 
(ix) the testing of any person in order to determine whether he satisfies the 
requirements for registration as a professional hunter, master hunting guide or 
hunting guide; 
 
[subparagraph (ix) amended by Act 6 of 1988] 
 
(x)  the preservation of game, wild animals, fish and indigenous plants in general or any 
species of game, wild animal, fish or indigenous plant; 
 
(xA) the requirements to be complied with for the recognition of conservancy committees 
and the declaration of conservancies, and any restrictions and conditions to which a 
conservancy committee shall be subject; 
  
[paragraph (xA) inserted by Act 5 of 1996] 
 
(xB) the requirements to be complied with for the establishment of wildlife councils, and 
any restrictions and conditions to which a wildlife council shall be subject;  
 
[paragraph (xB) inserted by Act 5 of 1996] 
 
(y)  generally any matter which the Minister  may deem necessary or desirable to 
prescribe in order to achieve the aims and objects of this Ordinance and to ensure the 
effective execution of the provisions thereof. 
 
(2) Different regulations may be made in terms of subsection ( 1)(b) in relation to 
different game parks or nature reserves. 
 
(3) The power to make regulations in relation to any matter mentioned in subsection (1) 
shall include the power to prohibit anything, either absolutely or conditionally, in connection with 
that matter. 
 
(4) All regulations made in terms of this section shall, subject to the provisions of this 
Ordinance be applicable in general and throughout Namibia: Provided that the Minister  may 
determine that any regulations so made shall be applicable only to that game, wild animal, fish or 
indigenous plant or exotic plant or to that part of Namibia which it determines and which is made 
known by notice in the Official Gazette. 
 
(5) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with the provisions of any regulation 
made in terms of this section shall be guilty of an offence. 
 
Presumptions 
 
85. (1) Whenever in any prosecution against any person upon a charge alleging that 
he committed upon any part icular piece of land an offence in terms of th e provisions of this 
Ordinance, it is proved that any act, forming part of such offence, was committed in or near the 
locality wherein such piece of land is situated, such act shall be deemed to have been committed 
on such piece of land, unless it is proved - 
 
(a) that it was committed on another piece of land; and 
 
(b) that the person who committed such act had the right to commit it on such other piece 
of land. 
 
(2) Whenever any person performs an act and he would commit or have committed an 
offence by performing that act if he had not been the holder of a licence, registration,  permit, 

PAGE 72
Republic of Namibia 72 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
exemption, document, written permission or written or other authority or power (hereinafter in 
this section called the necessary authority) to perform such act, he shall, if charged with the 
commission of such offence, be deemed not to have been the holder of the necessary authority, 
unless the contrary is proved. 
 
(3) In any prosecution for an offence in terms of the provisions  of this Ordinance in 
connection with the unlawful keeping in captivity of any live wild animal or exotic game, any 
person against whom it is proved that he possesses or has possessed a live animal or exotic game, 
shall be deemed to keep in captivity or to have kept in captivity such wild animal or exotic game, 
unless the contrary is proved. 
 
(3A) Whenever in any prosecution for an offence in terms of the provisions of section 
40A it is proved that a person has removed, damaged, cut, flattened or raised any  game-proof 
fence or adequate fence between any farm or piece of land and any other farm or piece of land of 
which he is not the owner or lessee or that he has constructed a game -trap in such a fence  or 
allowed a game-trap to exist therein, it shall be deemed, unless the contrary is proved, that such 
person has removed, damaged, cut, flattened or raised such game -proof fence or adequate fence 
or that he has constructed or retained the said game-trap therein with intent to drive or lure game 
or other wild animals from such other farm or piece of land onto the first-mentioned farm or piece 
of land or to allow game or other wild animals to pass or escape from such other farm or piece of 
land to such first-mentioned farm or piece of land. 
 
[subsection (3A) inserted by Act 27 of 1986 and amended by Act 6 of 1988] 
 
(4) In any prosecution for a contravention of the provisions of section 40(1) or the 
provisions of section 42(4) any person caught in the act  of removing any game or other wild 
animal from any snare, pitfall, trap, springtrap, net, bird lime or other device or in the act of 
capturing such game or other wild animal by any means whatsoever shall, unless the contrary is 
proved, be deemed to have brought or to have made such article, device or means on the land on 
which he was so caught and to have caught such game or other wild animal by means of such 
article, device or means. 
 
(5)  In any prosecution for an offence in terms of the provisions of section 42, any person 
in whose possession a we apon or ammunition mentioned in that section is found under 
circumstances indicating that game has been or is being hunted or presumably was or  is being 
hunted with such weapon or ammunition, shall be deemed to have used such weapon or 
ammunition contrary to the provisions of the said section, unless the contrary is proved. 
 
(6) Every person found in possession of the game meat or trophy obviously not older 
than seven days, of any specially protected game, protected game,  huntable game or huntable 
game bird s shall be deemed to have hunted such specially protected game, protected game, 
huntable game or huntable game birds unless the contrary is proved. 
 
(7) Whenever the game meat or the trophy of any specially protected game, protected 
game, huntable game or huntable game birds is found on a vehicle, vessel, boat, raft or aircraft or 
other means of conveyance, or at a camping or other place or in a house, every person on or at 
such vehicle, vessel, boat, raft, aircraft or other means of conceyance or at such camping or other 
place or house shall be deemed to be in possession of such game meat or trophy, unless the 
contrary is proved. 
 
[The word “conveyance” is misspelt in the Official Gazette, as reproduced above.]  
 
(8) Whenever in any prosecution for an offence in terms of this Ordinance it is alleged 
that an offence was committed in connection with or in respect of any species of game, wild 

PAGE 73
Republic of Namibia 73 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
animal, fish or indigenous or protected plant or either sex or particular class thereof, such species, 
sex or class shall be deemed to be correct until the contrary is proved. 
 
(9) If any person found in possession of game meat in respect of which it is reasonably 
suspected that it is the meat of game hunted contrary to the provisions of this Ordinance, alleges 
that he has received such mat as a gift, the game referred to shall - 
 
(a) if the person in whose possession the game meat concerned has been found or the 
person who he alleges has given it to him refuses or fails at the request of a nature 
conservator forthwith to point out the place where the game referred to has been 
killed to such nature conservator; or 
 
(b) if the place where the game referred to has allegedly been killed, is so pointed out to 
a nature conservator but no clear evidence that game has been killed there is being 
found at that place, 
 
in any prosecution for an offence in terms of this Ordinance, unless the contrary is proved, be 
deemed to have been hunted at a place other than the place where the person in whose possession 
the game meat has been  found or the person who he alleges has given it to him, alleges it was 
hunted. 
 
General offence 
 
86. Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of this Ordinance 
or an instruction given thereunder or a requirement put thereunder or any condition, requirement 
or restriction of a permit, licence, registration, approval, permission or exemption issued or 
granted thereunder shall be guilty of an offence. 
 
General Penalty 
 
[capitalisation of heading of section 87 changed by Act 3 of 2017] 
 
87.  (1)  Any person who is convicted of an offence in terms of this Ordinance for 
which no penalty is expressly provided shall be liable on conviction - 
 
(a)  to a fine not exceeding N$6 000 or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding six 
months, or to both such fine and such imprisonment if such person has not previously 
been convicted of such offence or, in the opinion of the court, a similar offence in 
terms of the provisions of any other law; or 
 
(b)  to a fine not exceeding N$12 000 or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding 12 
months, or to both such fine and such imprisonment, if such person has previously 
been convicted of an offence referred to in paragraph (a), 
 
[The comma at the end of paragraph (b) should be a full stop.  
There is no other text following that paragraph.]  
 
(2)  Despite any law to the contrary - 
 
(a)  a court that convicts a foreign national under this Ordinance  shall by order declare 
the foreign national a prohibited immigrant; and 
 
(b)  after the foreign national contemplated in paragraph (a) has -  
 
(i)  served his or her period of imprisonment; 

PAGE 74
Republic of Namibia 74 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
 
(ii)  paid a fine; or 
 
(iii)  paid and served both such fine and such period of imprisonment, 
 
the Minister responsible for immigration must forthwith deport the foreign national 
in terms of the Immigration Control Act, 1993 (Act No. 7 of 1993). 
 
[section 87 substituted by Act 3 of 2017] 
 
Continuous offences 
 
88. Any person convicted of an offence in terms of this Ordinance who after such 
conviction persists in the  conduct or omission constituting such offence shall be guilty of a 
continuous offence and liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding ten rand in respect of every 
day he so persists. 
 
Forfeiture and other orders 
 
89. (1) Whenever any person is convicted of an offence in terms of this Ordinance - 
 
(a) the court convicting such person shall, subject to the provisions of this Ordinance, 
declare any game or wild animal or game meat or the skin, horn, tooth or tusk, egg, 
shell, ears, feet or head of any game or wild animal or any fish or indigenous plant 
which is found in the possession of such person and which was used for the purpose 
of or in connection with the commission of such offence or in respect of which such 
offence has been committed, to be forfeited to the State; 
 
[paragraph (a) amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
(b) the court convicting such person shall issue an order directing any licence or permit 
issued in terms of this Ordinance to the pers on so convicted to be withdrawn and 
cancelled; 
 
(c)  the court convicting such  person may, subject to the provisions of this Ordinance, 
declare any weapon or ammunition, lamp, battery, fishing tackle, device or article 
referred to in section 42, animal or any other article or object which was used for the 
purpose of or in connection with the commission of such offence to be forfeited to 
the State; 
 
[paragraph (c) amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
(d)  the court convicting such person may, subject to the provisions of this Ordinance, 
declare any vehicle, vessel, raft, or aircraft used for the purpose of or in connection 
with the commission of such offence or for the purpose of conveying or removing 
any game or wild animal hunted or captured contrary to the provisions of this 
Ordinance, to be forfeited to the State. 
 
[paragraph (d) amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
(2) Any forfeiture in terms of the provisions of subsection (1)(c) or (d) shall, 
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any law, be ordered by the court irrespective 
of any rights which any person other than the convicted person has in respect of the forfeited 
weapon, ammunition, lamp, battery, fishing tack le, device or article referred to in section 42, 
animal or any other article or object, vehicle, vessel, raft or aircraft. 

PAGE 75
Republic of Namibia 75 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
 
(3) A forfeiture or an order in terms of the provisions of subsection (1) shall be made or 
given in addition to any penalty, forfeiture or order that shall or may be imposed, made or given 
by the court in terms of this Ordinance. 
 
(4)  Anything forfeited in terms of the provisions of this section may be disposed of by 
the Minister and the proceeds obtained therefrom shall be paid into the Central Revenue Fund. 
 
[subsection (4) amended by Act 27 of 1986] 
 
Jurisdiction of magistrates’ courts in respect of punishments  
 
89A. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law, a magistrate’s 
court shall have jurisdiction to impose any punishment prescribed by this Ordinance. 
 
[section 89A inserted by Ord. 4 of 1977] 
 
Repeal of laws 
 
90. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and (3) the laws mentioned in 
Schedule 1 are hereby repealed to the extent set out in the third column thereof. 
 
(2) Any proclamation, regulation, notice, order, prohibition, authority, permit, licence, 
registration, approval, permission, exemption or document promulgated, issued, made, ordered, 
published, imposed, given or granted and any other act performed in terms of the provisions of 
any law repealed by subsection (1) shall, if not inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance, 
be deemed to have been promulgated, issued, made, ordered, published, imposed, given, granted 
or performed in terms of the corresponding provisions of this Ordinance. 
 
(3) Any person appointed in terms of the provisions of an ordinance repealed by 
subsection (1) or a proclamation or regulation promulgated thereunder to perform duties similar 
to those duties required of a person appointed in terms of this Ordinance shall be deemed to have 
been appointed in terms of the provisions of this Ordinance. 
 
Short title 
 
91. This Ordinance shall be called the Nature Conservation Ordinance, 1975. 
 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
LAWS REPEALED 
 
Number 
and Year 
of Law 
Short title 
Extent to 
which 
repealed 
Ordinance  
6 of 1935. 
Extermination of Vermin Ordinance, 
1935. 
The whole. 
Ordinance  
10 of 1949. 
Extermination of Wild Dogs Amendment 
Ordinance, 1949. 
The whole. 
Proclamation  
43 of 1949. 
Vermin Extermination Amendment 
Proclamation, 1949. 
The whole. 

PAGE 76
Republic of Namibia 76 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
Ordinance  
11 of 1958. 
Extermination of Vermin Amendment 
Ordinance, 1958. 
The whole. 
Ordinance  
23 of 1965. 
Extermination of Vermin Amendment 
Ordinance, 1965. 
The whole. 
Ordinance  
31 of 1967. 
Nature Conservation Ordinance, 1967. The whole. 
Ordinance  
3 of 1968. 
Nature Conservation Amendment 
Ordinance, 1968. 
The whole. 
Ordinance  
12 of 1969. 
Nature Conservation Amendment 
Ordinance, 1969. 
The whole. 
Ordinance  
29 of 1969. 
Nature Conservation Further 
Amendment Ordinance, 1969. 
The whole. 
Ordinance  
21 of 1970. 
Nature Conservation Amendment 
Ordinance, 1970. 
The whole. 
Ordinance  
21 of 1971. 
Nature Conservation Amendment 
Ordinance, 1971. 
The whole. 
Ordinance  
6 of 1972. 
Nature Conservation Amendment 
Ordinance, 1972. 
The whole. 
Ordinance  
8 of 1973. 
Nature Conservation Amendment 
Ordinance, 1973. 
The whole. 
Government  
Notice 74  
of 1972. 
 The whole. 
 
[Act 27 of 1986 provides for the repeal of some additional laws: 
 
“Repeal of laws 
33.  (1)  Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and (3), the laws mentioned in the 
Schedule are hereby repealed to the extent set out in the third column thereof. 
(2)  Any proclamation, regulation, notice, order, prohibition, authority, permit, licence, registration, 
approval, permission, exemption or document promulgated, issued, made, ordered, published, imposed, 
given or granted and any other act perform ed in terms of the provisions of any law repealed by subsection 
(1), shall, if not inconsistent with the provisions of the Ordinance, be deemed to have been promulgated, 
issued, made, ordered, published, imposed, given, granted or performed in terms of the  corresponding 
provisions of the Ordinance. 
(3)  Any person appointed in terms of the provisions of an act, ordinance or proclamation repealed 
by subsection (1) or regulation promulgated thereunder to perform duties similar to those duties required of 
a person appointed in terms of the Ordinance shall be deemed to have been appointed in terms of the 
provisions of the Ordinance.” 
 
SCHEDULE 
 
LAWS REPEALED 
 
No. and year Short title Extent to which repealed 
Ordinance 5 of 1927 Game Preservation Ordinance 1927 The whole in so far as it is still 
in force in Eastern Caprivi 
Ordinance 19 of 1937 Fauna and Flora Protection Ordinance, 1937 The whole in so far as it is still 
in force in Eastern Caprivi 

PAGE 77
Republic of Namibia 77 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
Proclamation R.1023 
of 1973 
Owambo Nature Conservation Enactment, 
1973 
The whole 
Act 4 of 1974 of the 
Kavango Legislative 
Council 
Kavango Nature Conservation Act, 1974 The whole 
Proclamation R.188 of 
1976 
Nature Conservation in Certain Native Areas 
in South West Africa Proclamation, 1976 
The whole 
 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
DEFINITION OF THE BOUNDARIES OF THE ETOSHA NATIONAL PARK 
 
From a point where the southern boundary of the magisterial district of Owambo intersects 
the western road reserve boundary of trunk road 1, section 10, south-eastwards along the said road 
reserve boundary, but excluding the adjoining airfield, to a point where the said road reserve 
boundary intersects the northern boundary of the farm Cordonia 1067, situated in Registration 
Division “B”; thence westwards along the northern boundaries of the farms Cordonia 1067 and 
Onguma 314 to the north- western corner beacon of the last- mentioned farm; thence generally 
southwards along the boundaries of but excluding the following farms in succession, all situated 
in Registration Division “B”, namely Onguma 314, Vergenoeg 942, Kleinbegin 941, Leeudrink 
940, Farm 858, Nadubib 1083, Heliodor 857, Obab 856, Mara 840, Lynplaas 436, Vrede 435, 
Olifantslaagte 433, Nooitgedag 418 and Hestria 417 to the north- western corner beacon of the 
last-mentioned farm;  then ce generally westwards along the boundaries of, but  excluding the 
following farms in succession, all situated in Registration Division “A” , namely Renex 494, 
Grensplaas 473, Tsabis 470, Werda 469, Nuchas 468, Elandsfontein 463, Mooiplaas 462, Koppies 
457, Oberland 455, Montebello 456, Leeupoort 441, Margo 438, Tiervlei 436, Sonop 434, 
Burgershof 432, Avondvrede 439, Stillerus 429, Willina 427, Volouiga 424, Moesamoeroep 421, 
Safari 663, Leeurante 660, Seringetti 659, Farm 656, Grenswag 655, Vlakwater 652, Helaas 649, 
Pionier 648, Robyn 647 and Ermo 646 to the north-western corner beacon of the last-mentioned 
farm; thence southwards along the wester n boundary of the said farm Ermo 646 to the south-
western corner beacon thereof; thence eastwards along the nort hern boundaries of the following 
properties in succession namely Portion 4 of the farm Kaross 237 and Portion 2 of the farm Kaross 
237 to the north-eastern corner beacon of the last -mentioned property; thence southwards along 
the boundary of the said property, Portion 2 of the farm Kaross 237, to the south -eastern corner 
beacon thereof; thence westwards along the boundaries of the following properties in succession 
namely Portion 2 of the farm Kaross 237, Portion 4 of the farm Kaross 237, Portion 3 of the farm 
Kaross 237 and the farm Swartskamp 640 to a point on the southern boundary of the last -
mentioned farm where the said boundary intersects the eastern road reserve boundary of main 
road 67; thence northwards along the eastern boundary of the said road re serve to a point where 
it intersects the northern boundary of the farm Kowares 276; thence north-eastwards in a straight 
line to a point 5 kilometres due east of the waterhole Onaiso; thence north-westwards in a straight 
line to the south -eastern corner beacon of Quarantine Station 740; thence generally northwards 
along the boundary of but excluding the said Quarantine Station 740 to the south-western corner 
beacon of Quarantine Station 742; thence eastwards along the southern boundary of the last -
mentioned Quarantine Station to the south- eastern corner beacon thereof; thence generally 
eastwards to a point south-east of Otjivalunda East Salt Pan; thence generally north-eastwards in 
a straight line, but excluding the said pan, to a point where the said straight line meets the southern 
boundary of the magisterial district of Owambo; thence eastwards along the southern boundary 
of the said magisterial district to a point where the said boundary intersects the western road 
reserve boundary of trunk road 1, section 10, being the point of beginning. 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
] 

PAGE 78
Republic of Namibia 78 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
 
[Schedule 3 is amended by Government Notice 115 of 1978 and by Government Notice 75 of 1987,  
substituted by Act 31 of 1990 and amended by Government Notice 18 of 2016.  
The Gazettes do not italicise the Latin names.] 
 
SPECIALLY PROTECTED GAME 
 
Mountain Zebra (Equus zebra hartmannae) 
Giraffe (Giraffa camelopardalis) 
Klipspringer (Oreotragus oreotragus) 
Elephant (Loxodonta africana) 
Rhinoceros: (Diceros bicornis) 
(Ceratotherium simum) 
Impala (Aepyceros melampus) 
Hippopotamus (Hippopotamus amphibius) 
Black-faced Impala (Aepyceros petersi) 
Sebra (Equus burchelli species)
 
[The word “Sebra” should be “Zebra”.] 
African Wild Dog (Lycaon) 
[applicable to the whole of Namibia] 
 
[Government Notice 18 of 2016 (GG 5936) states that it is amending Schedule 3.  
However, it states that it is adding “African Wild Dog (Lycaon)” to the list of animals  
in subparagraph (i). There is no subparagraph (i) in Schedule 3, raising a question  
as to whether this amendment was perhaps intended to apply to subparagraph (i) of Schedule 4.]  
 
SCHEDULE 4  
 
PROTECTED GAME 
 
(i)  Animals 
 
[Schedule 4(i) is amended by Government Notice 117 of 1976, Government Notice 75 of 1987, 
Government Notice 90 of 1988 and Government Notice 131 of 1996.  
The Gazettes do not italicise the Latin names in most cases.] 
 
Aardwolf (Proteles cristatus) 
Bat-eared Fox (Otocyon megalotis)  
Roan Antelope (Hippotragus equinus)  
Tsesseby (Damaliscus lunatus) 
Dikdik (Madoqua kirki damarensis) 
Blue Wildebeest (Connochaetes taurinus)  
Bushbuck (Tragelaphus scriptus) 
Duiker (Sylvicapra grimmia)  
Antbear (Orycteropus afer)  
Clawless Otter (Aonyx capensis)  
Scaly Anteater (Manis temmincki)  
Cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus) 
Spotted-necked Otter (Lutra maculicollis)  
Hedgehog (Erinaceus frontalis) 
Monitor (Veranus niloticus; V. albigularis) 
Leopard (Panthera pardus) 
Pythons (Python sebae, Python anchietae)  
Bush Baby (Galago senegalensis) 
Oribi (Ourebia ourebi) 
Honey Badger (Mellivora capensis)  
Reedbuck (Redunca arundinum) 

PAGE 79
Republic of Namibia 79 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
Red Hartebeest (Alcelaphus buselaphus)  
Silver Jackal (Vulpes chama) 
Tortoises (Testudinidae) 
Steenbok (Rhaphicerus campestris)  
Sable Antelope (Hippotragus niger)  
Waterbuck (Kobus ellipsiprymnus)  
Sitatunga (Tragelaphus spekei) 
Lechwe (Kobus leche) 
Crocodile (Crocodylus niloticus) 
Puku (Kobus vardoni) 
Sharp’s grysbok (Rhaphicerus sharpei) 
Eland (Taurotragus oryx)  
[applicable to the whole of Namibia] 
Cape hunting dog (Lycaon pictus)  
[applicable to the whole of Namibia] 
Lion (Panthera Leo)  
[applicable to the whole of Namibia] 
 
[Government Notice 18 of 2016 (GG 5936) states that it is amending Schedule 3.  
However, it states that it is adding “African Wild Dog (Lycaon)” to the list of animals  
in subparagraph (i). There is no subparagrpah (i) in Schedule 3, raising a question  
as to whether this amendment was perhaps intended to apply to subparagraph (i) of Schedule 4.]  
 
(ii)  Birds 
 
All species of birds except the huntable game birds 
mentioned in Schedule 6 and the following birds: 
 
Weavers (All Ploceus spp.)  
Sparrows (All Passet spp.) 
Mousebirds (Colius colius; Urocolius indicus)  
Redheaded Quelea (Quelea quelea) 
Bulbul (Pycnonotus nigricans; P. barbatus)  
Pied Crow (Corvus albus). 
 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
[Schedule 5 is amended by Government Notice 117 of 1976. 
The Gazettes do not italicise the Latin names.] 
 
HUNTABLE GAME 
 
Bushpig (Potamochoerus porcus)  
Buffalo (Syncerus caffer) 
Oryx (Oryx gazella) 
Kudu (Tragelaphus strepsiceros)  
Springbok (Antidorcas marsupialis)  
Warthog (Phacochoerus aethiopicus). 
 
SCHEDULE 6 
 
[Schedule 6 is amended by Government Notice AG 77 of 1985. 
The Gazettes do not italicise the Latin names.] 
 
HUNTABLE GAME BIRDS 
 
Guinea Fowl (Numida meleagris)  

PAGE 80
Republic of Namibia 80 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
Namaqua Sandgrouse (Pterocles namaqua). 
Kurrichane buttonquail (Turnix sylvatica) 
Common quail (Coturnix coturnix) 
Harlequin quail (Coturnix delagorguei) 
Crested francolin (Francolinus sephaena) 
Redbilled francolin (Francolinus adspersis) 
Swainson’s francolin (Francolinus swainsonii) 
Orange River francolin (Francolinus levaillantoides) 
White faced duck (Dendrocygna viduata): 
Egyptian goose (Alopochen aegyptiacus): 
Cape teal (Anas capensis): 
Hottentot teal (Anas hottentota) 
Redbilled teal (Anas erythrorhyncha) 
Turtle dove (Streptopelia capicola) 
Laughing dove (Streptopelia senegalensis) 
Rock pigeon (Columba guinea) 
Burchell’s sandgrouse (Pterocles burchelli) 
Doublebanded sandgrouse (Pterocles bicinctus) 

PAGE 81
Republic of Namibia 81 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
 
 
 
 
  


PAGE 82
Republic of Namibia 82 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
  


PAGE 83
Republic of Namibia 83 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
SCHEDULE 9 
 
[The Official Gazette does not italicise the Latin names.] 
 
PROTECTED PLANTS 
 
Common name. Scientific name. 
 
AIZOACEAE 
 
Vygies Aridaria noctiflora  
Astridia all species 
Cephalophyllum all species  
Chasmatophyllum 
musculinum 
Cheiridopsis all species  
Conophytum all species  
Dinteranthus all species 
 
Mountain Vygie  Ebracteola all species  
Window plant, yellow  Fenestraria aurantiaca  
Window Plant, white  Fenestraria rhopalophylla  
Herero Vygie Hereroa all species  
Jensenobotrya  Jensenobotrya lossowiana  
Juttadinteria  Juttadinteria all species  
Vygie Lapidaria margaretae  
Lithops all species 
 
Plains Vygie  Nananthus aloides  
Vygie Opthalmophyllum all 
species 
Psammophora all species 
Rusch’s Vygies  Ruschia all species 
Vygie Schwantesia all species  
Stoeberia all species 
Kalk Vygie  Titanopsis all species  
Vygie Trichodiadema all species 
 
APOCYNACEAE 
 
Bottle tree  Pachypodium lealii  
Elephant’s trunk Pachypodium namaquanum 
 
ASCLEPIADACEAE 
 
Carrion-flower species Caralluma all species  
Ceropegia all species  
Decabelone barklyi  
Duvalia all species  
Hoodia all species  
Huernia all species  
Huerniopsis all species 
Piaranthus all species  
Stapelia all species  

PAGE 84
Republic of Namibia 84 Annotated Statutes  
Nature Conservation Ordinance 4 of 1975  
 
Tavaresia: sec Decabelone 
species 
 
Ghaap species Trichocaulon all species 
 
CRASSULACEAE 
 
 Adromischus all species  
 Crassula all species 
 
LILIACEAE 
 
 Aloe all species 
Small Aloe  Chortolirion bergerianum 
Variegated Aloe Gasteria (ernesti-ruschii) 
pillansii 
Gloriosa Gloriosa virescens 
Small Haworthia Haworthia tesselata var. 
engleri 
 
MORINGACEAE 
 
Moringa Moringa ovalifolia  
 
ORCHIDACEAE 
 
Orchids Orchidaceae all genera and 
species 
 
PORTULACACEAE 
 
 Anacampseros all species 
Small Elephant’s Foot Portulacaria pygmaea 
 
VITACEAE 
 
Butter Tree species Cyphostemma (Cissus) 
Stem Succulent species  
 
WELWITSCHIACEAE 
 
Welwitschia Welwitschia mirabilis. 
 